*****************************************************************************

                       Chrono Trigger FAQ/Walkthrough 
                           For the Super Nintendo
                    Version FINAL (Last Updated 1/1/2002)
                  By Devin Morgan (dbm11085(at)hotmail.com)

    This file is Copyright (c)2001-2002 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved.

*****************************************************************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Story
4. Controls
5. Overview
6. Walkthrough
7. Enemies
8. Bosses
9. Weapons
10. Armor
11. Headgear
12. Accessories
13. Items
14. Techniques
15. Shops
16. Mini-Games
17. Side Quests
18. Endings
19. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
20. Credits
21. Copyright Notice
22. Contact Information

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version FINAL (1/1/02): The final update to be made to this FAQ.

Version 1.05 (9/9/01): Corrected/added a whole bunch of stuff, thanks to 
phoenixfxp(at)hotmail.com!

Version 1.0 (8/16/01): The first, complete version of this FAQ.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Chrono Trigger is Squaresoft's masterpiece game for the Super NES. This game 
of the RPG genre introduces new aspects of gameplay, including traveling 
through several time periods to change the course of the game, as well as the 
use of techniques (basically a magic system like in older games). I don't 
want to go too far here, but if you want to try a really great RPG for the 
SNES, I definitely recommend this one!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Story  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Living in the seemingly peaceful kingdom of Guardia in 1000 A.D., the child 
CRONO was chosen by guardian spirits to save the world from ultimate 
devastation. Though Doomsday will not happen until the year 1999, the ancient 
seeds of destruction were planted long ago by the evil LAVOS. Your mission in 
the world of CHRONO TRIGGER is to travel back and forth through time to 
change the course of history, and stop Lavos from succeeding in his dark 
plan. On your journey, you will battle monsters and meet many helpful people 
in both the past and the future. Some will become your faithful and powerful 
companions, while others will give you clues by telling you stories. Pay 
attention to what they say, and good luck in your adventure.

FUTURE
  In the future, 2300 A.D., the world has almost been destroyed by the evil
  Lavos. Those who survive are hungry, hurt, and hopeless. Find out how to
  help them, because the future of the world depends on you.

PRESENT
  In 1000 A.D., beneath the surface of peaceful surroundings, monsters from
  the past are scheming to destroy the world while residents, unaware of the
  approaching peril, celebrate in the kingdom of Guardia.

PAST
  Back in 600 A.D., humans are at war against monsters controlled by the evil
  Prince of Darkness. He has already defeated many Guardia knights, so in
  order to help them, you must travel even further back - to 65 Million B.C.
  - when Lavos first arrived on earth.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Control Pad: Move character, move cursor on menu screens

Start: Pause game

Select: View World Map if you're in a Field area

A: Talk to people, open chests, check things, enter an area if you're on the
   World Map

B: Dash (in Field areas only, not the World Map)

X: Open menu screen

Y: Change party members, bring up time compass when aboard the Epoch

L and R: Hold simultaneously to attempt running from battle

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Overview -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Menu Screens
------------

During the game, pressing X opens up the menu screen. From there, you can 
press Left or Right to move along the menu bar to pick what you want to use 
or change. Here's a quick rundown of each option on that menu bar:

Character Status: The first option on the menu. Here, you can equip any
                  person in your group with new weapons, armor, or
                  accessories.

Item: You can view a list of all the items you currently possess. Any item in
      yellow writing means you can use it right now.

Tech: Use this to view a list of the Techs that each person in your group
      has. You can view all Dual and Triple Techs that any particular person
      has learned and is part of, too.

Configuration: Here, you can configure different aspects of gameplay, which
               will be shown on your screen as you move the cursor down the
               list.

Character Order: You choose what order your currently 3-person party stands
                 in. The one on the top is the "leader" in the group and will
                 walk in front.

Data Save: You can save your game's current progress in one of three files
           here. You can only save when in the overworld or at designated
           save points.


Techniques
----------

Techniques, or Techs, are your characters' magic spells basically. When you 
defeat enemies, you gain Tech Points. After you gain a certain amount of 
those points, one of your party members learns a new Tech/magic spell. In the 
first part of the game, your party at that point will only be able to learn a 
couple of Techs. Only after meeting Spekkio at the End of Time will you be 
able to learn/cast magic spells. Each character has a specific element, and 
depending on their element, they'll learn a certain type of spell. Below is a 
quick list of what element each character has:

Crono: Lightning
Marle: Water
Lucca: Fire
Robo: N/A
Frog: Water
Ayla: N/A
Magus: Shadow

As your party learns new Techs, you'll notice that certain people are 
starting to learn Dual Techs. That occurs when two people in the current 
party have learned specific spells/Techs, which they can combine to perform a 
strong attack in battle. There are also Triple Techs that can be learned, but 
all 3 characters in the party must know specific spells, or have a certain 
Accessory equipped in order to use it.


Status Ailments
---------------

There are many different status-changing effects that enemies can hit you 
with during battle. You can use either a Heal item or certain healing Techs 
to cure most of these ailments. Here's a quick list of those ailments:

Blind: An "X" appears over a character's head, and the chances of them
       hitting an enemy decreases.

Chaos: A star appears over the character's head, and you lose control of
       them. When their time meter fills, they'll randomly attack any ally or
       enemy, but attack them and they'll be back to their senses.

Poison: Character gradually loses HP each round in battle; purple bubble over
        head appears.

Sleep: As the name implies, the character falls asleep and cannot function in
       battle for several rounds. If attacked, they'll usually wake up.

Lock: A question mark appears over the character's head, and they become
      unable to use any Techs/Magic.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Introduction
------------

When you start a new game, you'll have to choose the battle settings; either 
Active or Wait. I chose the Active setting for my game. After you do that, 
give a name to Crono and press Start to begin the game. You'll see a brief 
overhead view of the area with some sort of fireworks going off at Leene 
Square, as well as balloons floating in the air. The screen will become blank 
and you'll hear a voice calling, which is Crono's mother. She'll come in and 
open the windows, then tell Crono to behave himself, and then she'll go 
downstairs. You now have control of Crono, so head downstairs yourself and 
his mother will tell him to meet his inventor friend (who you'll then name as 
Lucca). After that, talk to his mother again to get 200G, and then leave the 
house.

In the overworld, you can check out many surrounding areas before heading 
north to Leene Square. If you're a beginner to this game, head south to the 
bunch of buildings, and go to the leftmost one, which is the Mayor's Manor.

Mayor's Manor (1000 A.D.)
-------------------------

In this place, talk to everyone standing around to learn about the gameplay 
in this game if you're a beginner. Open the first chest you come across to 
get a Tonic. Then, go upstairs and talk to several more people there. Open 
the chest in the middle of that room to get 100G, then talk to the man 
standing in front of it. Take his advice, then talk to him again to get 300G 
more! When you're ready, go back downstairs and exit the manor.

Now, head north to Leene Square, which is the colorful area to the north of 
Crono's house.

Leene Square (1000 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter this area, you'll realize that the Millennial Fair is taking 
place here. There are many different mini-games around you can take part in 
(see the Mini-Games section of this guide for that list). Also, be sure to 
visit the weapons, armor, and item shops, then buy some Tonics, the Iron 
Blade, BronzeHelm, and Karate Gi for Crono. Equip that on him, then sell the 
old stuff, then continue north into the second area of the square. You'll see 
a girl running back and forth in front of you in a panic. Go up to her and 
she'll run into you, causing yourself and her to fall, as well as her 
pendant. After you both get up, talk to her, then go get the pendant for her 
(you can pick up the pendant before talking to her, but that'll affect the 
outcome of a later event). Bring her the pendant and she'll introduce herself 
as Marle. Allow her to walk with you, and she'll join your party! Now, there 
are a few other things you should do while you wait, since Lucca's invention 
isn't ready yet according to the people standing at the north end of this 
area.

Take the path left and down to the west side of this area. You'll see a pink 
bag on a counter there; do NOT touch it! Doing so will affect the outcome of 
an event later on. You'll see a cat nearby in the corner. Go up to it and 
press A, then it'll follow you around. Head all the way to the east side of 
this area, near the Soda-Guzzling Contest table. Talk to the girl standing 
there and she'll thank you for finding her cat, and Marle will think you're 
sweet for helping the girl out. Next, go back left to the middle area, then 
go south to the first area of Leene Square. Talk to Melchior the swordsmith 
(he's standing to the left of the upper-right blue tent), and say no when he 
asks you to get Marle to sell the pendant. Then, go left and talk to the guy 
in the other blue tent. Don't worry about buying Marle equipment yet though; 
just talk to the merchant and don't buy anything. You'll then find out that 
Lucca's experiment is ready in the north area of the square. So, go play any 
other mini-games you want to, then exchange your Silver Points for regular 
money by talking to the guy in the purple tent in the second area of the 
square.

Now, continue north and Marle will stop you because she wants to look at the 
candy. Wait for her patiently (do NOT move, as that also affects a later 
event). When she's done, continue north to the next area. Here, you'll hear 
Taban, Lucca's father, announcing the newest invention Lucca made. Go up and 
talk to him, then talk to Lucca on the left telepod. She'll jump off and 
allow you to try her invention. Walk onto the left telepod and Lucca and 
Taban will power up the machine, which will warp you to the right telepod, 
making the invention a success. Now, talk to Marle and she'll want to try the 
invention as well. She'll get onto the telepod, but her pendant will react, 
causing her to warp into another dimension. Taban will freak out, while Lucca 
has no clue what just happened. Go to the telepod and take the pendant Marle 
left behind, then you'll automatically step onto the telepod. Lucca will then 
power up the invention again and send Crono into the same warp that Marle 
went through. After that, you'll end up in Truce Canyon in the year 600 A.D.

Truce Canyon (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you arrive in this area, move around and 3 Blue Imps will come out to 
attack you. Defeat them, then head left into the next area. Go up the ladder 
and continue left, then a flying creature will drop a couple Blue Imps down 
to fight you. Beat them and go left, then open the chest to get a Tonic. Now, 
head south and open another chest to get the PowerGlove accessory (I 
recommend you equip Crono with this immediately). Then, go back up a tiny bit 
and take the path left and down a ladder. At the bottom, defeat the 2 Blue 
Imps and the Roly, then continue southeast out of this area.

Back on the overworld map, head south and visit the Residences to learn about 
the area, as well as the Truce Inn if you need to rest from your battles at 
the Truce Canyon. Also, check out the Market if you wish to buy some items. 
Otherwise, head south and west along the path, then go north into the next 
area, which is the Guardia Forest.

Guardia Forest (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you enter this area, head north and east when the path splits. Continue 
east and a couple of Green Elf and Roly enemies will jump out from the tree. 
Defeat them and take the path south and east. You'll see a couple of 
sparkling lights on the ground here. Check out the northmost one to get a 
Power Tab, then check out the south one, which is a trap that makes enemies 
jump out to attack. Beat them, then go back west and north, and this time 
take the path all the way north and east. Go around the bend and you'll see 
the bushes shake. Check them out and a creature will jump out and run away, 
dropping a Shelter for you to keep. Continue west and check out the next set 
of bushes that shakes, then defeat the enemies that pop out. When you reach 
where the path splits, head northwest and defeat the next set of enemies that 
appear. Then, continue northeast and north out to the overworld again.

On the overworld, take a moment to recover your health with a Tonic or two, 
or even a Shelter if you want. When you're ready, go north and enter Guardia 
Castle.

Guardia Castle (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

Upon entering Guardia Castle, the two soldiers standing guard will stop you. 
The Queen will then come and give you permission to come and follow her into 
the castle. So, continue north into the following room, which is the throne 
room. Here, talk to the King sitting on the throne to the left, and he'll be 
happy since you "saved Queen Leene's life". He'll let you know that she's 
been acting rather oddly lately, and that she also lost her coral pin. After 
he's done talking, go right and up the hallway, then up the stairs to the 
next room. Go up 2 floors, then open the chest in the second room to get a 
Tonic. Now, continue going all the way upstairs to the top. When you get 
there, go down and talk to the soldier blocking access to the room. He'll 
tell you the Queen awaits you, then he'll move, so continue left and up 
through the door into her room. Go up to the Queen and she'll dismiss the two 
maids in there, then she'll ask you to come nearer. Walk closer and she'll 
reveal herself as Marle, disguised as Queen Leene. She'll explain to you what 
happened, then the room will change colors and Marle will say she feels like 
she's being torn up. Walk up to her again and she'll vanish without a trace! 
Now, open the chest to the left to get Ether, then go down and out of this 
room.

Go right down the hallway and the maids and the guard will be standing there. 
Talk to them if you want, then go up to the stairs, then go all the way down 
to the bottom floor again. Walk south and Lucca will come running towards 
you. She'll ask you where the girl (Marle) went, then she'll freak out 
because she disappeared. Lucca will then explain the situation in more 
detail, and how the real Queen Leene must be rescued, or else Marle will 
disappear totally. Lucca will then join you, so head down and left into the 
throne room. This time, go left and up the hall, then up the stairs at the 
end. Go up 2 floors and open the chest to get 100G, then continue all the way 
to the top floor. There, go down and right through the hallway, then up 
through the door into the King's room. Open the chest to get a BronzeMail, 
then equip it on Crono and leave this room. Now, go all the way downstairs to 
the throne room again, then continue south through the next couple rooms. 
Back in the first room where you were stopped earlier, go all the way down 
toward the exit, but you can head either to the left (Knight's quarters) or 
to the right (the kitchen). Visit the kitchen if you want to recover your 
status, or the Knight's quarters if you want to rest/recover. After you're 
done, go down and exit the castle.
In the overworld again, go south and into the Guardia Forest again.

Guardia Forest (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

Back in this forest area, head all the way south through here while defeating 
the enemies along the way for some quick experience/gold. You may want to 
leave/reenter this area if you're looking to gain a level or so, or learn new 
Techs. Whenever you get done here, take the south exit to the overworld.

Out in the overworld, go east to the Truce Inn and rest if you need to, at 
the low price of 10G. Then, visit the Market to the west of it, and buy the 
Dart Gun and a BronzeHelm for Lucca, making sure to sell the old equipment. 
After that, head all the way west and north to the Cathedral.

Cathedral (600 A.D.)
--------------------

When you enter this place, go up and talk to the nuns kneeling behind the 
pews. Then, go and talk to the nun standing by the organ. After that, you'll 
see a sparkling light on the floor nearby. Check it out and Lucca will 
examine it, revealing that it is a pin of Guardia's royal crest. Suddenly, 
the 4 nuns will surround you and turn into monsters, which you must fight. 
Defeat the 4 Naga-ettes with your Techs (or the Flame Whirl Dual Tech, if you 
learned it). After you win this fight, Lucca will be relieved for a moment 
before another Naga-ette appears and tries to grab her. Then, a frog creature 
jumps out and kills it with its sword. After some words are exchanged, choose 
to go with the frog, and your new ally (whose name is Frog) will join you. 
Now, go to the organ and play it (press A) to reveal a hidden room to the 
right. So, go and enter that room.

In this room, go left through the hallway and defeat the Diablos along the 
way. Open the 2 chests you pass to get a Tonic and a Revive. Continue left 
and go up through the door at the end, then continue straight up the steps to 
the upper level. Enter the room in front of you and open the 3 chests to get 
a MaidenSuit, an Ether, and a Tonic. Equip Lucca with the MaidenSuit. Leave 
the room and go right and up along the balcony, then open the chest at the 
end to get the SteelSaber, which you should equip Crono with as his new 
weapon. You'll see spikes to the left, which seem to be blocking access to 
the room there. Go left and around the spikes, and hit the switch on the wall 
to lower the spikes. Enter that room and talk to the 2 soldiers to find out 
some information about this place. Check out the sparkling light in the pot 
to find a Power Tab. Now, leave this room and go back down to the lower 
level. Head right across the room, defeating the Diablos along the way. At 
the end, defeat the Gnashers and go up the steps, then continue straight 
through the door into another room. Talk to the 3 creatures here, making sure 
to talk to the one at the south end of the table twice so it leaves the room. 
Follow it out of the room and up along the balcony into another room. Here, 
talk to the creatures disguised as the Queen, the King, and a soldier. Try to 
leave the room and they'll reveal themselves as monsters and fight you. Beat 
them and open the 2 chests to get an Ether and 100G.

Now, leave the room and go all the way south to the lower level again. Go 
left and defeat the enemies again, then go straight up through the middle of 
this room, defeating several Gnashers along the way. Then, continue into the 
following room. Here, go left and step into the sparkling circle, which is a 
save point (remember this for when you encounter these throughout the game). 
Use a Shelter, and save your game at this point, then head up the stairs and 
go left. Open the chest at the end to get a Shelter, then go down the stairs 
that lead to the lower area. They'll collapse, making you slide to the 
bottom. Go left and talk to the rolled up creature, which turns out to be a 
Hench that will attack you. Defeat it and go up through the door and defeat 
the Mad Bats here. Hit the switch on the north wall to make more Mad Bats 
appear. Beat them as well, then continue north into the next room. Go right 
through here and defeat the enemies that appear, then open the chests to get 
a Tonic and a Heal. Continue right and beat some more enemies, then at the 
end, go down into another room. Hit the switch on the wall to lower the 
spikes in the middle room you haven't yet entered. Beat the enemies in this 
room, then continue down into the following room and fight a couple more. 
When you're done, go up the steps and into the middle room. You'll be 
surrounded by enemies here, so be ready to fight! Defeat them all with your 
attacks/Techs, then after the battle, open the chest in the right corner to 
get the Iron Sword, which you should equip Frog with right away!

Also in this room, there is an organ. Play it to reveal a hidden room that 
you would otherwise have missed. So, leave this room and go left, then slide 
down the trap stairs. There, go up through the next couple rooms and head 
right toward the middle of this long hall. You'll notice that there's now a 
door in the north wall, so go up and into that new room. Defeat the 2 
Henches, then continue up the hall and defeat 2 Naga-ettes. After that, 
you'll face 2 more Henches at the end of the hall. Beat them, then 
recover/save at the save point, then continue up into the next room. When you 
enter this room, you'll hear a voice telling the captive Queen Leene to say 
goodbye. Move up into this room and you'll see the Chancellor from Guardia 
Castle. The Queen will leave for now, then the Chancellor will change into 
Yakra, sending you into a boss battle. Read the Bosses section for help on 
winning here.

After you win, Queen Leene will come and thank you and tell you to come to 
the castle. Before you go, open the chests to free the real Chancellor, and 
to find a Mid Ether. After the Chancellor finishes talking and leaves, follow 
him to the exit of this room. Talk to Leene and you'll automatically be taken 
to the throne room of Guardia Castle.

Guardia Castle (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you arrive here, the Chancellor will talk for a moment, then Frog will 
feel bad for not protecting the Queen, so he leaves. Now, talk to the King 
and Queen, and Lucca will remind you about where Marle (aka Princess Nadia) 
disappeared, and how she might be there again. So, go right and up the hall, 
then up several sets of stairs to the top, then go down and left along the 
hallway and into the Queen's room. Go up and Marle will reappear, and reveal 
her true identity as Princess Nadia. She'll ask you if you would've walked 
with her at the fair if you knew her identity. Pick either answer, as it 
won't affect anything, but say "Wrong!" if you want to make her happy. After 
Marle joins you, leave this room and get back down to the throne room. Talk 
to Leene and the King, then go down and out of this room. Talk to Frog in the 
next room, but he'll leave ashamed from earlier. So, continue out of the 
castle to the overworld.

Back in the overworld, head south and into Guardia Forest.

Guardia Forest (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you enter this area once again, head southwest and defeat the Roly 
Riders that come out. Continue southeast and follow the path as it goes south 
and southwest. Defeat the Blue Eaglets, then go around the bend and continue 
making your way south to get out of this area completely.

In the overworld screen, head south to the path and follow it to the east. 
Stop at the Market if you want to buy Marle better armor, otherwise continue 
northeast all the way into Truce Canyon.

Truce Canyon (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

In this area, go north and west and defeat the enemies you encounter. Climb 
up the ladder and continue north, defeating the next set of creatures in your 
way. Go east across the bridge, then climb down the ladder at the other side. 
From there, head east into the next area. Here, you'll see a blue and black 
circle in the middle of the area. Lucca will explain that it's a "Gate" that 
can take you to the same place in a different time era when used. After she 
explains it some more, Lucca will open the portal and your group will step 
in, warping back to Leene Square in 1000 A.D.

Leene Square (1000 A.D.)
------------------------

When you arrive back in the present-day era, Marle will invite Crono and 
Lucca to dinner at the castle. Lucca will run off saying she has something to 
do, so you get to take Marle to the castle by yourself. Anyway, head south to 
the next area of this place. The Millennial Fair is still going on and you 
can also play the mini-games from before to win Silver Points, which you can 
exchange for money. However, the vendors have packed up and left since you 
left, so they won't be here to sell you goods. Now, continue south through 
the next couple areas to exit Leene Square.

In the overworld, head south and stop at the Market to the west of the path 
to buy some goods (particularly the Iron Bow and MaidenSuit for Marle). Then, 
continue southwest and north into Guardia Forest.

Guardia Forest (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

When you enter this area, head north and when the path splits, go east and 
southeast into a larger area. Defeat the 3 Hetakes there, and check out the 
sparkling object in the upper-right corner of that area to get a Power Tab. 
Now, go west and all the way north, then to the east. Approach the creature 
running around and it'll cause a couple Beetles to come out, so defeat them 
quickly and continue heading north and west through this forest. Pass by the 
floating enemy, known as the Avian Chaos, and it'll summon a couple of 
Beetles to accompany it into battle against you. Beat them and go northwest, 
then defeat the 3 Hetakes that you run into further ahead. Continue north and 
east to see the exit of this place. You can go all the way east to another 
area, where you'll find a chest that is sealed by a mysterious energy. Go 
back to the previous area and head north to exit the Guardia Forest.

Back in the overworld, take this time to save your game and recover if 
needed, then go up into Guardia Castle.

Guardia Castle (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

Upon entering the castle, the Chancellor will appear and be happy that Marle 
(Princess Nadia) is back. However, he accuses Crono of abducting her, and the 
soldiers will come and take you away. The next scene is that of a courtroom, 
where Crono is on trial for supposedly abducting the princess. Remember how 
earlier at the Millennial Fair, I mentioned several events that may affect a 
later point in the game. Well, this is that later point, so depending on your 
actions at the fair, you will be deemed either innocent or guilty. Here's a 
quick list of the events that may/may not determine your innocence:

1. When you ran into Marle and her pendant fell, talk to Marle BEFORE getting
   the pendant.

2. The pink bag on the ledge next to where the man was walking in the west
   area. If you took the bag, the man will testify against you, and vice
   versa.

3. The little girl in the east area that lost her cat. Find the cat in the
   west area by the man and the pink bag, talk to it, then bring it back to
   the girl. She'll testify in your defense at the trial.

4. After you have Marle with you, talk to Melchior. Decline when he asks to
   try and get Marle to sell the pendant.

5. When Marle wants to look at the candy, stand still and wait for her. Do
   not move at all; just be patient and wait.

6. When asked at the trial who started this whole mess, say it was your
   fault.

7. When asked at the trial if Marle's fortune tempted you, say no both times.

If you did all I listed here, you'll have no problem with being deemed as 
innocent by the jury. After the verdict, the Chancellor will sentence you to 
3 days of solitary confinement (an execution will be added onto that sentence 
if you were found guilty). Marle will come and argue it, but the king will 
come and the soldiers will take you away. They'll bring you to the 
Supervisor, who will give you the sentence of being executed in 3 days (even 
if you're proven innocent).

When you awaken in a jail cell, you will find a pink bag nearby which is 
filled with Ether (only appears if you were innocent). Drink the cup in the 
upper-right corner of the room to recover your HP/MP, and save your game at 
the save point as well. Now, you can either wait 3 days in your cell until 
the execution, or you can break out right now. If you wish to break out, go 
down to the bars 3 times to annoy the guard enough to make him come in and 
stop you. When he does so, after you get up from being knocked down, get 
behind him and press A several times to kill the guard, then run out and 
fight the other guard to be free. However, escaping now will leave you by 
yourself to run around in the dungeon, and you won't meet up with Lucca until 
the end. However, if you wait the 3 days out, you'll be taken to the 
execution chamber. Lucca will come in and kill the Supervisor and the 
Soldiers, then you'll be free and she will join you.

After Lucca joins you, open the chest in this room to get a BronzeMail. Now, 
leave the room and open another chest to get a Mid Tonic. You'll see another 
guy in a guillotine here; release him and he'll introduce himself as Fritz, 
then tell you to visit the Market sometime. After he leaves, go down into the 
next room and check out the fallen guard to get a Mid Tonic. Continue west 
through the hallway and defeat the Guard along the way. Keep going west and 
down the stairs to the next area. Run across the bridge and defeat the Guards 
that come to stop you, then continue to the next room. Go down the steps and 
defeat the 2 Blue Shields, then go directly west and up the steps to another 
room. In this room, pull the first switch on the wall and enter the right 
cell. The Decedent will come to life and attack, so defeat it and then leave 
the cell and go back downstairs to the previous room. Now, go down and take 
the southeast stairs to the next area. Go right across the bridge and into 
the next room. There, go right and you'll see a Guard standing there. Press A 
and you'll knock it down, giving you access to the switch behind it. Pull the 
switch and enter the next room.

In this room, there are 4 chests. Open them to get 2 Ethers and 2 Mid Tonics. 
Leave the room and go down the hall, and an Omnicrone will come to fight you. 
Defeat it and continue to the next room, then cross the bridge to reach the 
room with 4 paths. Go up the northeast steps and cross the bridge again, then 
in the next room, head east and defeat the Guard in your way. Go north when 
the path splits and head west to fight another Guard. Then, go up the stairs 
and cross the bridge to reach another room. In the room you end up in, defeat 
the 2 Blue Shields here and take the southwest steps to another room with 
jail cells. Open both cells by pulling the switches on the walls, and open 
the chest in the right one to get a Shelter. Now, go back to the previous 
room and head up the northwest steps to the next room. Here, go west and into 
the left cell, then through the hole in the wall to reach another area.

Outside, go right and climb down the wall to the very bottom, then enter the 
hole in the wall. In the cell you turn up in, open the chest to get a 
Shelter. There's a hole in the floor of this cell, so check it out and climb 
down to the cell below. Open the 2 chests there to get 1500G and a Lode Sword 
(equip to Crono right away). Now, press A in front of the wall you climbed 
down from to get back to the above room. From there, go through the hole in 
the wall and climb all the way up to the top again. Continue through that 
room to the following area with the 4 paths. Back in that room, go up the 
northeast stairs to the next room. There, go up another set of stairs to the 
following room. Go left and through the door into the next room. Check out 
the man on the floor to get 5 Mid Tonics! Also, check out the document on the 
floor, which will give you information about the Dragon Tank. Now, go to the 
save point and recover/save at this point.

After you're done here, continue up into the next room. Go left across the 
bridge and you'll feel the ground shake. Continue to the left and the Dragon 
Tank will roll in, so you'll have to fight it to proceed. Read the Bosses 
section for help on winning this battle. After this, Crono will destroy the 
Dragon Tank, just as the Chancellor and 2 soldiers appear to try and fix it. 
Instead, the tank will explode and destroy part of the bridge, but the 
Chancellor and soldiers are forming the "temporary fix" to the bridge, so 
walk across them and into the next room. There, open the chest to get a 
Shelter. Continue downstairs and you'll see 2 soldiers standing guard. Try to 
walk past them and they'll start to come after you. Run down the hall and 
towards the exit of the castle, and Marle will come and yell to the soldiers 
to stop. The king and Chancellor will come and stop her, but she'll come with 
you and Lucca to escape. The soldiers will then chase you out to Guardia 
Forest.

Guardia Forest (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

In the forest, the soldiers trap your party from escaping, so run to the 
right into another area. Here, you'll find a Gate to escape through. The 
Chancellor and the soldiers will come, so activate the Gate and you'll warp 
to the Future, which is 2300 A.D.

Bangor Dome (2300 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you arrive in the future world inside Bangor Dome, your group will have 
no clue where they are. So, go south and exit this place.

In the overworld screen, head south to the next large building, which is the 
Trann Dome.

Trann Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

When you enter this building, go up and left and talk to the first person you 
come across. Answer yes when he asks if you have cash, and he'll offer to 
sell you some goods. Buy the Auto Gun for Lucca, as well as the Iron 
Helm/Suits  for your party. After that, talk to the other people here and 
rest in the Enertron (machine to the far right) to recover HP/MP, then leave 
the Trann Dome.

Back in the overworld, head north towards Bangor Dome again, but don't enter 
that place. Instead, continue northeast of it and enter Lab 16.

Lab 16 (2300 A.D.)
------------------

When you enter this area, head to the right as far as you can. You'll notice 
that there are rats running around here, and they'll steal an item from you 
if you make contact, so avoid running into them. Go north and open the chest 
past the rat running back and forth to get the Berserker accessory. Now, go 
back towards the entrance of this place, and head north from there. Defeat 
the Octopods and Meat Eater you come across, and go northwest along a path 
through this area. Defeat the Craters and another Meat Eater, then head east 
and avoid the rat running about. Continue and you'll see a chest; try to open 
it and you'll find out it's a trap. Defeat the enemies that show up, then try 
to open the chest again to get a Lode Sword.

Now, follow the path east and north while trying your best to avoid the rats 
again (all they'll really do is steal Tonics from you, which you should have 
plenty of by now anyway). Continue to the end, then head west and north into 
a small alcove with a chest. Take the Lode Bow inside, equip Marle with it 
right away, then go south and west to encounter more enemies. Defeat them and 
continue by going west and north, where you'll find several Craters to fight. 
Beat the Craters, and then go all the way east past another rat, until you 
reach the next area of Lab 16. In this new area, head east and 3 Shadows will 
come off the junk car to fight you. These enemies are unique in the way that 
normal attacks will always miss them. Use techs to defeat them quickly and 
easily. After the fight, continue south and east along the first path you 
come across, and defeat the Mutant. After beating the Mutant, head south and 
fight some more Shadows if you want. Otherwise, continue northeast and into 
another fight with a Mutant. Beat it, then continue north to exit this lab.

Outside again, head southeast and enter the large building, which is called 
the Arris Dome.

Arris Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

When you enter this place, follow the path through this maze until you reach 
the area where all the people are hanging out. An old man will be amazed that 
your party got through the ruins and could defeat the Mutants. After that, go 
left and talk to the old man again. He'll introduce himself and explain that 
there's a computer and food in the basement, but robot guards block the 
entrance there. Talk to all the people in this room as you make your way to 
the left, then use the Enertron to rest. Now, go around the path to the save 
point. Before you save, talk to the lady behind the counter and buy goods if 
you want to stock up. Then, save your game and head back around to the area 
with the people. Go south to the middle of the room and you'll come to a 
ladder. Doan (the old man) will question you, but your group will push on. 
So, go down the ladder into the next room.

In this room, go left and up to reach 2 consoles, which you need a password 
in order to activate. For now, just go left and up the ladder into the next 
room. Here, go right along the first path to get to the next beam. From 
there, go north and east through this room. You'll come across a statue of a 
rat with a note attached to it. Read the note to hear its warning, then 
continue west to the far left beam. There, go north to the end, then head to 
the east. Go north on the first beam you pass and you'll end up in the next 
area. Go north toward the door and a giant robot will fall from the ceiling, 
blocking your group. After your party gets up, you'll have to do battle 
against the Guardian and 2 Bits, so read the Bosses section for help on 
winning here. After you win, continue up into the next room. There, Lucca 
will examine the food and realize that it's all rotten. Marle will check out 
the dead man against the wall and find a note on him. The group comes to 
look, and takes the Seed that was on the note. Check out the man again and 
you'll read the note saying that the rat in the other room is really not a 
statue. Now, open the chest to get a Mid Ether, then leave this room.

When you arrive in this room, you'll spot the rat standing nearby. You'll be 
prompted to catch it (B to dash, A to catch), so give chase and try to catch 
it. If it runs into another room, exit/reenter the room to try again. When 
you finally catch it, it'll tell you how to access the secret passage (hold L 
and R, and press A). After it leaves, head all the way to the south exit of 
this room. In this room, you'll see the 2 consoles again. Go to the right one 
(the one with the sparkling light on it) and hold L and R, then press A to 
open the passage to the door to the right. Now, go right and into the next 
room. Here, go up and defeat the Bugger and 2 Rats, then continue north to a 
chest at the end. Open it to get a Mid Ether, then go back to the entrance of 
this room. Go left and up the stairs to the upper level, then go north along 
the high path. At the end, go down the stairs and defeat the various enemies 
moving around here. Continue south to the next set of stairs, then go up the 
stairs and follow the path north all the way into the following room.

In this room, go straight ahead and defeat the Proto 2. Then, go up the 
stairs to the upper level and follow it around the wall and to the next part 
of this room. Go down the stairs and fight another Proto 2 nearby. Now, 
before taking the stairs against the west wall, continue north and defeat 
another Proto 2. From there, head east and beat that Proto 2 as well, then go 
north to the control panel. Go up to the console and hold L and R while 
pressing A (it's the password from earlier) to make a platform appear. 
However, the door you're now able to access is sealed for now, but at least 
the platform's in place for later. Anyway, go back west and down the stairs, 
then go south a little. When you reach the stairs to the west, go up them and 
follow that path all the way into the next room. This next room is the info 
center, which Lucca points out. She'll play around with the computer and find 
out that your next stop is the Proto Dome to the east. Marle will become 
curious and push a button, which shows a visual record of the "Day of Lavos, 
1999". She'll then become upset seeing the destruction being the end of the 
world, and then ask that they go and prevent that from happening.

Now, leave this room and head west along the path through this room. Go south 
and down the stairs at the other end, then defeat the Proto 2 and continue 
south to the next set of stairs. Go up them and follow the path around, and 
then south again to the following room. Here, make your way towards the south 
end of this room while defeating the enemies along the way. When you get 
there, go south and into the next room. In this room, go left and down, then 
climb up the ladder to get back into the safe room with all the people. When 
you enter this room, the old man Doan will be surprised and everyone will 
gather around to find out what happened. Marle will explain to them how it's 
their future, and she gives them the seeds you found down below. Doan will 
then give you the Bike Key and tell you to go to Lab 32. After that, recover 
at the Enertron and save your game, then go east and around the path to exit 
Arris Dome.

Back in the overworld, head north to the large group of wrecked buildings 
known as Lab 32. Save your game out here, then enter the lab.

Lab 32 (2300 A.D.)
------------------

When you enter this place, go east and open the chest there to get a Mid 
Tonic. Then, go west and north through this room and you'll come to the Jet 
Bike that Doan was talking about. Check it out and several robots will come 
out and surround you. Before you end up fighting them, someone else shows up, 
who calls himself Johnny. He challenges you to a race against the Jet Bike, 
so tell him you know how to ride. Then, go up and press A by the bike to 
start the race. The object is to get to the end before Johnny (consult the 
small map along the bottom of the screen to see how far you are until the 
end). You also have 3 boosts you can use by pressing B. However, once you use 
them, they're gone, so I advise you to save them until the end. After you 
win, go south to exit Lab 32.

In the overworld screen again, head east and you'll see the Factory. Pass it 
by for now and head south into the Proto Dome.

Proto Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

Upon entering the Proto Dome, head west and defeat the 3 Buggers that appear. 
Then, go north and defeat 4 more Buggers you run into. After that, recover at 
the Enertron, then go southeast and down the stairs to the lower level. Go 
north along that path and you'll come across a deactivated robot. Check it 
out and Lucca will tell you she can repair it. After a few moments, she'll 
have the robot up and running again. You'll then have to give it a name, so 
call it Robo. Since the door up ahead is locked, Robo says it can get through 
the Factory to the north and turn on power to open the door, but someone has 
to stay behind to open the door when the power is on. You'll have to choose 
to leave either Marle or Lucca behind (I chose to leave Marle and take Lucca, 
so the walkthrough will go along as if you took Lucca with you). After you 
decide, head back south and exit this dome.

Now that you're in the overworld again, and with Robo, we're going to 
backtrack a little. This next area (Sewer Access) is optional, but I'm 
choosing to bring you through here because it's good experience, plus there 
are a couple of items you should get here. Anyway, head northwest to Lab 32.

Lab 32 (2300 A.D.)
------------------

In this place, go up and check out the Jet Bike to race Johnny again to the 
other side of the lab (alternatively, you can just walk all the way down the 
path, but you'll have to fight enemies along the way). After you win and get 
to the other side, continue south and out of this place.

Back in the overworld, head south and east into the Sewer Access.

Sewer Access (2300 A.D.)
------------------------

Upon entering this area, some creature will call your group thieves, then run 
off to tell Sir Krawlie about it. Anyway, climb down the ladder and go east. 
Defeat the 2 Edgers and a Nereid, then open the chest to get 600G. Now, head 
back west and continue west to fight 2 more Nereids. After that, continue 
across the bridge and you'll see two frogs talking. They'll run off after 
noticing you're coming, so head across that bridge and go south. As you go 
towards the path leading to the next room, Lucca will stop and say this isn't 
really a good place to be. Then, continue south into the next room. Here, 
climb down the ladder and head west to find a page from an old diary. Read 
it, then head back around the path and to the east, where you'll find a cat. 
Try talking to it and it'll run away, leaving you to fight 3 Nereids. Use 
Crono and Robo's Dual Tech Rocket Roll (if you have it) to make quick work of 
them. After that, continue along the path and you'll see a bucket and a can. 
Press A to kick the bucket in the can, causing 4 Nereids to appear. Use the 
Rocket Roll Dual Tech if you have it to beat them, too.

Now, keep going along the path and you'll see a piece of pie on the floor. 
Check that it and you'll be attacked again. Beat the Rat and 2 Nereids, then 
continue around a bit further. This time, you'll see what appears to be a 
save point. Check that one out and you'll enter yet another battle with a 
couple of Nereids. Defeat them just like you did before, then continue east 
and up a ladder into the next room. Here, go north and fight the 2 Edgers you 
see. Then, follow the path north while holding Right so you walk against the 
right wall. You'll end up walking into a hidden room. Follow the path right 
and hit the switch on the wall at the end to open the door on the other side. 
Now, go back west to the main path and continue north to the end. Then, go 
east into another hidden room and follow the path east and south through the 
now open door. When you get through the door, the 2 frogs from before will be 
hinting at a bridge that opens when the switch is on. They can't turn it on, 
so they split since you're coming.
Head east and north along the path, then across the bridge to reach a chest. 
Open it to get a Rage Band, which I recommend you give to either Crono or 
Robo (I gave it to Crono). Now, heal your group and go right across the 
bridge, where you'll hear a conversation between a Guard and Sir Krawlie. 
After the guard flies off, you'll surround Krawlie and fight it. Read the 
Bosses section for help on winning here. After you win, heal and continue 
south along the path. Defeat the Nereids and Edgers you encounter, then 
continue south and all the way west, ignoring the first path going north for 
right now. At the end, go north and open the chest to get a Bolt Sword, which 
you should equip Crono with immediately! Now, go back south and east, then 
across the north bridge you passed up a moment ago, Climb up the ladder and 
you'll exit the sewers.

Back in the overworld, head south and enter Keeper's Dome if you want to talk 
to the old man inside. Otherwise, go northeast and visit Death Peak.
Death Peak (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

As soon as you enter this area, run north and get to the east wall. Continue 
north and you'll see a type of indent in the wall; check it out to find a 
Power Tab. You must do this all quickly before the wind blows you off the 
mountain entirely. If you can't do this the first time, keep trying until you 
get it. After you get it, give it to whoever you want, then go back out of 
here.

In the overworld again, go west and back into the Sewer Access area.

Sewer Access (2300 A.D.)
------------------------

Back in the sewer area, climb down the ladder and follow the path going west 
and north. Hit the switch on the wall to make the rest of the bridge appear, 
then cross the bridge and defeat the enemies there. After that, go south and 
into the next room. There, follow the path all the way through this room, 
while avoiding all the traps along the way (unless of course you want to 
fight those creatures a second time). When you get to the end, climb the 
ladder and you'll be in the next room. In this room, go all the way north, 
then east across a bridge. From there, go north and up the ladder to exit the 
Sewer Access.

Now that you're in the overworld again, it's time to get back to the Proto 
Dome and the Factory like we're supposed to be going to. Get through Lab 32 
and race Johnny or walk, whichever you prefer, then when you get out at the 
other side, go east. Use a Shelter and save your game, then enter the 
Factory.

Factory (2300 A.D.)
-------------------

When you enter this factory, go up to the computer screen and press A. Robo 
will disable the security here, so you can get through. Defeat the Acid enemy 
that pops out, then go right and up the conveyor belt. Then, go west and 
defeat the 3 Debuggers that come off the wall. Read the note posted on the 
wall the Debuggers came from and it'll tell you which elevator will take you 
where. To save yourself some time instead of having to go back and forth 
later, go down the east elevator into the Factory area. There, go south and 
down a ladder, then go west and north. Go up the ladder and into the dark 
room. Go all the way north in it, then all the way east. Press A to get a Mid 
Ether, then go back out of that hidden room. Then, go back south and climb 
down the ladder to the left. Follow the path all the way west and open the 
chest at the end to get a Robin Bow (equip this on Marle later). Now, go back 
east and up the ladder, then go east and climb down the other ladder.

Follow the path south and west to the end, then go up and into another little 
room. A giant claw will come down and pick up your group, then drop them on a 
conveyor belt in the middle of the room, which moves them into another room. 
There, you'll have to fight a Proto 3. Defeat it and you'll be sent to the 
next room, where you'll fight a Proto 3 along with 2 Debuggers. Beat them and 
you'll be sent into a third room, where you'll fight a Proto 3 and 4 
Debuggers! Keep your party in good shape and defeat these enemies, then 
you'll finally go around to another conveyor where you can get off at this 
point. Wait until the robots on the conveyor pass, then get back on it and 
walk right. Get off at the next stop and open the chest there to get an 
Ether. Get back onto the conveyor and try to run to the left, but you'll 
eventually get pulled off by the giant claw and be forced to go through those 
3 battles again. Get through it, then when you reach the first stop, go south 
into the next room.

In this room, defeat the 4 Bugs, then climb up the ladder to the east and go 
through the door at the top to enter the following room. Here, go north, then 
east when the path splits. Follow that path east and north, then open the 
chest nearby to get a Mid Tonic. Now, go through the door into the next room. 
Here, check out the computer screen in the center of the room to find out how 
to control the crane (Code 0: X A; Code 1: B B). Then, a couple of Proto 3's 
will start flying around. Defeat them, then open the 2 chests to get 400G and 
a Mid Ether. Now, leave this room and follow the path south and west, then go 
north and through the door into another room. There, defeat the 2 Proto 3 
robots, then the 2 Debuggers that fall from the ceiling. After that, open the 
chests to get an Ether and a Shelter, then take the southwest exit to the 
crane control room. After the beep, input one of the codes listed above to 
make the crane move one of the metal barrels onto the conveyor belt and out 
of your way. Then, input the other code to move the second barrel.

Now, go back to the previous room and defeat the enemies if you can't get 
around them safely, then go through the opposite door into the next room. 
Here, go west and climb down the ladder, then head west along the now clear 
path. At the end, go north and through the door into the next room. Here, 
open the chest to get a Bolt Sword, then check out the computer screen. It'll 
give you another code (XABY), which you'll need for the next area of this 
place. Now, leave this room and head south, then all the way east to the very 
end. Then, climb up the ladder and continue east and south along the path. Go 
east and climb up another ladder, then go north and up the elevator into the 
next room. Here, get to the west side of the room by defeating the 3 
Debuggers in your way. Then, go down the west elevator into the Lab area of 
the Factory. In this room, go south to the save point, where you should 
recover/save before going any further. After you're done here, go west and 
north through the door, then defeat the Acid and Alkaline enemies here. Next, 
check out the computer screen to open the hatch leading to the next room. 
Open the chest to get a Shelter, then go down the ladder in the southeast 
corner to reach the next room.

In this next room, head all the way west while defeating the Alkalines that 
appear along the way. At the far end of the room, head south through the door 
and defeat the Acid, then continue south through the next door. Head east and 
defeat the next couple of enemies, then go through the north door into 
another room. Go east and open the chest to get a Hammer Arm (equip on Robo), 
then go north and west to another chest with a Titan Vest inside (give this 
to Lucca). Now, check out the computer screen in the northeast area of the 
room to disable the security lasers here. Several Acids and Alkalines will 
fall from the ceiling, so defeat them. Then, go down the ladder in the 
southwest corner of the room to reach the following room. Here, go east and 
all the way north through this hallway. At the end, go west and open the 
chest to get a Plasma Gun, which you should equip Lucca with right away! 
Check out the computer screen and it'll ask for you to input the password, so 
press the following buttons after the beep: X A B Y. Doing that will open the 
nearby door. Now, go through that door into the next room.

Here, turn on the power generator in the center of the room, and the security 
will be set off in this place. Robo tells you to hurry out of here, so leave 
this room and continue south through here as the metal doors close behind 
you. At the end, go west and up the ladder to the next room. Here, go east 
and south through the door, then continue west and north through 2 more doors 
to the end. Here, 6 robots will come out to block your path. Robo considers 
them to be his friends, but they attack and send him away, leaving you and 
Lucca to fight them off. Read the Bosses section for help on defeating the R 
Series. After you beat them all, Lucca will pull Robo out of the room he was 
thrown into, then Crono and Lucca will bring him back to the Proto Dome.

Proto Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

You'll automatically come back here with a badly damaged Robo. Lucca will 
repair him, then he'll decide to come with your group. Your group will then 
go to the now open room, then warp through the Gate to another area known as 
the End of Time.

End of Time
-----------

When you arrive here, head southeast and through the door into the next room. 
Here, check out the sparkling pillar to the south to recover your HP/MP, then 
save at the save point. Now, talk to the sleeping old man and he'll wake up. 
He'll explain to you where you are and what's going on, then he'll tell you 
that you can only have 3 members in your party at once, which means you'll 
have to leave someone behind for now. I chose for my party: Crono, Lucca, and 
Marle. After the old man is done talking, go up and into the next room. Talk 
to the round white guy here, who introduces himself as Spekkio, the Master of 
War. Answer either choice when he asks if you think he's strong or weak, then 
he'll tell you about magic. He'll then ask you to walk clockwise around his 
room 3 times, starting from the door. So, walk along the walls, touching each 
corner, as you make your way around the room 3 times. After you do that, talk 
to Spekkio again and he'll give your current party the ability to use magic 
(this is why I didn't have you put Robo in your party; he can't use magic). 
You'll also be given the chance to test your magic against him in battle. Use 
your new magic to attack, but don't worry about what he does to your group, 
since it's just practice and you won't get a Game Over if your party dies. 
After you win, he'll give you a bunch of prizes depending on your party's 
level (I got a Magic Tab and 5 Ethers).

Now, leave Spekkio's room and talk to the old man again. He'll tell you to 
return to your own era, which is 1000 A.D., so save again and go north 
through the hallway into the next room. In the room with the pillars of light 
(Gates), check out the rightmost one and use it to warp to Medina Village in 
1000 A.D.

Medina Village (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

When you arrive in this era, you'll fall out of a closet inside a villager's 
home! They'll freak out, and as you leave the house, they'll tell you that 
other villagers don't take too kindly to humans. After that, leave the house.

Outside in the Medina vicinity, visit the Market or the Inn if you like. 
However, you must fight some pretty easy monsters before you can buy anything 
or rest at the Inn. I don't recommend buying anything at the Market, because 
of the VERY steep prices. Go visit Medina Square (the sparkling point) if you 
want to learn about Magus and Lavos and how humans will be supposedly 
"doomed". After you're done here, head north and enter the Forest Ruins (the 
blue object on the map).

Forest Ruins (1000 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter this area, go north and west along the first path you pass, 
then open the chest to get a Mid Ether. You'll notice a large blue platform 
that you cannot access yet, so you might as well leave the forest since 
there's nothing else of interest for you here.

Back in the overworld screen, head south to the village area, then visit the 
Elder's House if you haven't already done so. There, talk to the people, and 
check out the counter to the left of Ozzie VIII to find a Speed Tab. Go 
upstairs and check out the sparkling item on the counter to get a Magic Tab. 
After you're done here, leave the house and continue southwest along the 
path. You'll come to a lone house south of a mountain. That's Melchior's Hut, 
and that's where you should go now.

Melchior's Hut (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

In this house, talk to the old man who is Melchior, and check out what he has 
for sale. Buy some new weapons/armor for whoever needs it, as well as a bunch 
of Mid Tonics. After you're done here, head towards the door and Melchior 
will tell you to go through the cave in the northern mountains to return to 
Truce Village. After that, leave the hut.

In the overworld again, save your game and recover your HP/MP if you need to. 
Then, go north to the mountains and enter the Heckran Cave.

Heckran Cave (1000 A.D.)
------------------------

As soon as you enter this cave, you'll be attacked by two Hench enemies. Beat 
them quickly, then follow the path north and west to the ladder, then climb 
down to the ledge below. Open the nearby chest to get an Ether, then climb 
down the next ladder to the area below. From there, head west to the end 
where you'll have to fight a Jinn Bottle and 3 Octoblushes. Beat them, then 
head south into the next room. Here, head all the way south to the bottom 
area of the room, then defeat the 2 Tempurites that come out of the ground to 
attack. Then, head south and into the following room. Here, go west and 
defeat the Rolypolys and Cave Bats, then open the chest to get a MagicScarf. 
Now, go back out to the previous room. There, go north and west and open the 
chest to get a Mid Ether. Then, continue north and west, and defeat the 4 
Tempurites that come out. After that, head north and open the chest to get an 
Ether. Now, head all the way south and into the next room.

In this room, go south and defeat the group of Rolypoly enemies that roll in. 
Then, go west and defeat several Cave Bats, too. After you beat them, 
continue west and north into the following room. Here, go north and defeat a 
Jinn Bottle and the Octoblushes it shoots out to fight with it. Next, 
continue up the path and you'll see a chest you cannot open since it's sealed 
with a mysterious energy. Ignore it for now and keep going into the next 
room. Here, go down the ladder and into the water, then follow the watery 
path east and north to the end. Climb up onto the dry land at the end, then 
recover and rest at the save point. After that, head north into the next 
room. In here, go forward and a giant monster known as Heckran will come and 
fight you. Read the Bosses section for help on defeating it. After you win 
this battle, continue north and up the steps to a small pool. Jump in and 
you'll be sent through a water vortex, which drops you off out in the 
overworld near Lucca's House. So, go inside the house since you're here.

Lucca's House (1000 A.D.)
-------------------------

Inside Lucca's home, go north and through the door, then go up the east 
stairs. In this room, talk to Lara, the woman in the wheelchair. Taban, 
Lucca's father will come in and give Lara the day's earnings, then he goes 
back downstairs. After he leaves, follow him downstairs and into the first 
room. Talk to Taban and he'll give you a Taban Vest, which Lucca can equip. 
After that, leave the house.

Back in the overworld, head north across the bridge and visit the Truce 
Market.

Truce Market (1000 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter, go up and talk to Fritz, who runs this shop. He'll thank you 
again from earlier and give you 10 Mid Ethers as a reward for your kindness. 
His father will come out and thank you, too. Anyway, buy some Mid Tonics or 
Shelters if you need them, and sell any old equipment in your inventory. 
Then, leave this market.

Outside again, go north and stop by Crono's house if you want to rest or talk 
to Crono's mom. Otherwise, continue north to Leene Square.

Leene Square (1000 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter this area, you'll still notice the Millennial Fair is going 
on. Head north all the way through Leene Square to the area where Lucca's 
invention is set up. Use the Gate there to warp to the End of Time. From 
there, check out the new warp pillar and head to Truce Canyon, 600 A.D.

Truce Canyon (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you arrive here, head west into the next area. Climb up the ladder and 
follow the path north and west, then defeat the Imp Aces that fly in. Then, 
continue south and down another ladder. Defeat a couple more easy enemies and 
head southeast to exit this place.

In the overworld, head south and west along the path, then continue south to 
the Zenan Bridge.

Zenan Bridge (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

Here, talk to all the knights standing around, especially the gold-clad 
Knight Captain. They'll explain that the food rations have run out, and that 
Guardia Castle hasn't sent supplies yet. So, your next stop will be the 
castle, so leave the bridge area and head north into the Guardia Forest.

Guardia Forest (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you enter this area, head north and west when the path splits. Follow it 
west and north, then northwest some more. Continue north and east, then north 
again to exit this forest.

Now, continue north into Guardia Castle.

Guardia Castle (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you enter the castle, the guards will stop you, but realize who you are 
and let you go ahead. Go up to the throne room and talk to the Chancellor if 
you want. Then, go back to the entrance of the castle and head east and north 
into the kitchen. Go down and talk to the chef, who's rushing around there. 
He'll argue with the maids about his brother, who is the Knight Captain. Open 
the chest nearby to get an Ether. Now, leave here and head back upstairs, 
then toward the exit. The chef will tell you to wait, then he'll run up and 
give you a Jerky, as well as a Power Tab. After he leaves, continue out of 
the castle.

Outside, head south through the forest to the other end, then continue south 
to the Zenan Bridge.

Zenan Bridge (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

Back on the bridge, you'll see that the troops are being beaten badly. Talk 
to the Knight Captain and give him the Jerky, then you'll hear more about the 
battle taking place, and how the "Hero" made it through alive. Talk to the 
captain again and agree to help, and he'll give you a Gold Helm (equip on 
Crono). After you're done talking, go west across the bridge and you'll see a 
couple skeleton enemies defeat a few knights. A creature named Ozzie will 
show up and fight you, along with the 2 Deceased enemies. Use magic to defeat 
the Deceased enemies, then attack Ozzie to make him run away. Chase him down 
and defeat the next set of Deceased, then attack Ozzie again to make him run. 
Continue following him to the end, then a bunch of skeletons will come 
together to form Zombor, which you must fight. Read the Bosses section for 
help on beating this creature. After you win, continue west to get out of 
this area.

Back in the overworld, head south and east into the Dorino village vicinity. 
Visit the Market if you need items, then visit the Elder's House to hear a 
conversation between the Elder and a guy named Toma. After Toma leaves, talk 
to the Elder. Then, head to the Dorino Inn and talk to Toma by the bar (he's 
the one in the middle). Pay his tab and he'll give you information about the 
southern woods. After that, talk to the other people around and they'll talk 
about the Masamune and Denadoro Mountains. Now, leave the bar and head 
southeast to a lone house, which is Fiona's House. Open the 2 chests in her 
house to get 2 Mid Ethers, then talk to Fiona if you want before leaving. 
After that, head north and into the Denadoro Mts.

Denadoro Mts. (600 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter this area, head straight ahead and defeat the enemies, then 
open the chest nearby to get 300G. Continue north all the way to a ladder, 
and you'll see a boy being chased down by a Goblin. Defeat the Goblin and the 
boy will be on a high ledge nearby, telling you to get away quickly. You'll 
then have to fight an Ogan; defeat it by burning its weapon, then attacking. 
Next, climb the ladder to reach the next area. When you enter this area, go 
southwest and back down to the previous area on the ledge. Open the chest 
there to get a Revive, then go back up to the next area. Here, go up and 
you'll see an Ogan that doesn't respond to you. Try to continue north and a 
Free Lancer will awaken it, then they'll both attack. Beat them, and head 
west on a path under the cliff, then open the chest to get an Ether. Now, 
keep going north and across a bridge, then climb up the ladder. Defeat the 
Ogan and Goblin further ahead, then open the chest behind them to get 500G. 
Now, head east across a bridge and follow the path south, where an Ogan will 
charge at you. Defeat it, then climb up the ladder and continue all the way 
north into the next area.

In this next area, go east and defeat the Free Lancer that drops down. Then, 
take the narrow path to the north and open the chest to get a Mid Ether. Now, 
go back south to the main path and continue heading northeast. Defeat 2 Free 
Lancers and open another chest to get a Revive. Then, climb up the nearby 
ladder and open the chest to the north to get a Gold Helm, which you should 
equip on Robo. Now, climb up the ladder and defeat the Ogan sitting there. 
After that, go west and beat the Free Lancer and Ogan. Head south and west 
and down the ladder, then open the chest to get a Mid Tonic. Get back up, 
then go north and west to the next area. Here, go north and up the ladder, 
while avoiding the rocks being thrown at you (you take damage each time 
you're hit). Open the chest to get a Mid Tonic, then climb up another ladder 
to the north and head east to the next area. Go east and defeat the enemies, 
then climb up the ladder and head north. Defeat the Free Lancers that 
surround you, and then open the chest off in the corner up ahead. Next, 
follow the path northwest to the next area.

At the summit of this mountain, defeat the several groups of enemies that 
come to fight you as you move along. After you get through them all, go west 
into the next area. Here, open the chest in front of you to get 300G. Then, 
head north and west and defeat some more enemies. Go north and east into the 
water and around the bend, then open the chest to get a Mid Tonic. Now, go 
back west and south towards the top of the waterfalls. Go west and drop down 
the left waterfall to the ledge below. Open the chest to get a SilverStud, 
then drop down to the next ledge. Head east and south, then open the chest 
below the ledge to get a SilverErng. Now, continue north to the next area. 
Continue north and west through the next couple areas to get back to where 
you were just moments earlier (in the watery area before dropping off the 
falls). When you get back there again, go northwest onto the ledge at the 
other side. Open the chest on the west ledge to get a Mid Ether, then climb 
down the ladder and you'll be attacked by 2 Free Lancers. Beat them and 
continue to the next area.

Here, go west and defeat the 3 Bellbirds, then cross the bridge. Talk to the 
white creature several times and it'll give you a Magic Tab. Then, go south 
to the next area. In this area, go forward and rest/save at the save point. 
Now, go west and climb down the ladder, then go east to a chest containing a 
Mid Ether. Continue south and down a ladder, then go to the east into the 
next area. Here, open the somewhat hidden chest to the north to get a Gold 
Suit (I recommend equipping this on Lucca). Then, go south and avoid the 
rocks being thrown at you, then climb down the ladder and open the chest 
nearby to get a Shelter. Go east and defeat the Goblins, then climb up the 
ladder and a Free Lancer will knock you down. Defeat the Free Lancers and 
Ogans that appear, then climb up that ladder again and continue north into 
the cave. There, talk to the kid wandering around, then restore your party's 
HP/MP. I recommend your party at this point be Crono, Lucca, and Robo. Now, 
go up towards the Masamune sword, and the kid will stop you. Say that you 
wanted the sword and the other kid will come out from behind the sword. They 
are the brothers Masa and Mune, and you'll have to fight them, so read the 
Bosses section for help on winning. After this first fight, Masa and Mune 
will combine and you'll have to fight their tougher combined form. Read the 
Bosses section to beat that form as well.

After you win this battle, the brothers will separate and leave, so go up and 
claim the sword. You'll get the broken Bent Sword, then Masa and Mune will 
send you out to the base of the mountain.

Out in the overworld again, head south to the Porre area. Visit the Market 
and buy some new equipment for your crew, selling off the old stuff. Also, 
check out the sparkling object on the floor to the left to get a Power Tab. 
Next, go visit the Cafe and talk to Toma at the far left end of the bar. Buy 
him another drink and hear what he has to say. Talk to everyone else here if 
you like, then leave and visit Tata (the supposed "Hero") at his house to the 
south. Talk to Tata and he'll apologize and give you the Hero Medal. Talk to 
his father if you want, then leave the house. Now, head northwest and into 
the Cursed Woods.

Cursed Woods (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you enter this area, head north and defeat the T'poles and Gnawers you 
encounter. Open the chest to the east to get a Mid Tonic, then continue north 
and defeat the next bunch of enemies. After that, open another chest to find 
a Shelter, then continue all the way to the end, while defeating the enemies 
along the way. You'll see a bush shake in the end area, so check behind it to 
enter a hidden room. Climb down the ladder and Frog will come out to see you. 
When he walks away, follow him and talk to him again. After he walks across 
the room, check out the sparkling object and it'll end up being a broken 
piece of the Masamune. Robo will read what's on the sword, and it says 
"Melchior", which means it's a good idea to go visit him in Medina Village 
next. So, talk to Frog again if you want, then leave this little hideout. 
Head south through here and defeat the enemies, then you'll be outside again.

In the overworld, head east and north all the way towards the Dorino area. 
Rest at the inn if you want, otherwise continue northwest and walk across the 
Zenan Bridge. At the other side, continue northeast to the Truce Canyon. 
There, get through the area to reach the Gate, then warp to the End of Time.

End of Time
-----------

When you arrive here, recover and save in the middle room if you like, then 
use the warp leading to Medina Village, 1000 A.D.

Medina Village (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

When you arrive in a closet in a villager's house, step out and exit the 
house. Outside, head southwest to Melchior's Hut.

Melchior's Hut (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

Inside this hut, talk to Melchior and he'll be surprised that you have the 
broken Masamune. He'll then tell you that you need some Dreamstone in order 
to fix it. After he's done, leave the hut.

Now, head back to the house you came out of and enter the closet to warp back 
to the End of Time. There, use the warp pillar you haven't yet used, and warp 
to Mystic Mountain in the year 65,000,000 B.C.

Mystic Mountain (65,000,000 B.C.)
---------------------------------

When you arrive here, you'll drop down to a lower area where a bunch of 
Reptites are running around. Several of them will fight you, so defeat them 
and more will show up. It seems like you're greatly outnumbered, but some 
girl comes and defeats a few of them, leaving you to fight the rest. After 
you win that battle, the girl will check out your group and introduce herself 
as Ayla. She will then invite you to Ioka Village, so follow her southeast to 
the next area. Here, she'll run off on a higher ledge, so head south and open 
the chest to get a Berserker accessory. Defeat the 4 Runners up ahead, then 
continue south and defeat the 2 spinning Kilwalas further down the path. Keep 
going southward and defeat the enemies you run into, then at the end Ayla 
will lead you out of here. Follow her south to exit this place.

Out in the overworld of this prehistoric place, head east and north to the 
small huts set up, which is Ioka Village. Enter the huts and talk to the 
people (a guy in the east hut will offer sweet water, which recovers your HP 
and MP). You'll find out that the chief has stones, and his hut is north of 
the village. So, head north and across the bridge, then visit the east hut 
before going to the Chief's Hut. Talk to the people here and buy a couple Mid 
Tonics from the trader if you want. You'll also find out that thunder is good 
against dinosaur enemies. Now, leave this hut and go west to the Chief's Hut. 
Inside, talk to Ayla and she'll take you to the party at the Meeting Place.

Meeting Place (65,000,000 B.C.)
-------------------------------

Here, there's a party going on, complete with music playing and people 
dancing. Talk to Ayla, your other party members standing around, and the 
other people. Then, go and talk to Ayla again and she'll tell you about Azala 
and how they want to destroy the villages here. Wander around, then come talk 
to Ayla again. She'll show you a red stone, then she offers to give it up if 
you beat her. When she challenges you, accept the challenge and it'll be a 
soup-drinking contest. Press A quickly many times and drink the most bowls of 
soup. If you win, the contest will be over and Ayla will give you the stone. 
You'll then drink one last bowl, and then the party's over.

When you wake up at the site of the party the next day, you'll find out that 
the Gate Key was stolen. You automatically go to the Chief's Hut to find 
Ayla. She's sleeping, so go up and talk to her and she will wake up. She'll 
say that it was Reptites that stole the Gate Key, and she wants to come with 
you to beat them. You now have to choose who the third party member for this 
adventure is. I recommend either Robo or Lucca at this point (I took Robo). 
Now, leave the hut and you'll be outside again.

Out here, head east to the nearby hut. Talk to the people and you'll find out 
that you can trade items (Petals, Fangs, Horns, and Feathers) for weapons and 
items. The list of what you can get for what is in the Shops section. Leave 
here and go south across the bridge, then visit the other 2 huts. One guy in 
the east hut will give you a Tonic when you talk to him now. You'll also find 
out that the Reptites went to the Forest Maze to the south. So leave the huts 
and continue south to the Forest Maze.

Forest Maze (65,000,000 B.C.)
-----------------------------

When you enter this area, go and talk to Kino, who is the boy to the east. 
He'll confess that he stole your items because he felt Ayla doesn't like him. 
After a brief conversation, Kino and Ayla will make up and Kino will say that 
the Reptites took the items and ran. After Kino leaves, head east and open 
the first chest to get a Mid Tonic. Then, climb down the vine nearby to reach 
the lower area, and head south. Defeat the enemies, then open another chest 
to get a Revive. Now, go north and east and climb down another vine. Then, go 
around the tree and walk across the log bridge to the east. Take the path 
south and open the chest you come across to get a Mid Tonic. From here, head 
back to the north and when the path splits again, go west to yet another 
chest. Open that one to get a Mid Ether. Now, go east and follow the 
footsteps all the way to the east. At the end, go south and defeat the Winged 
Ape that comes out.

Now, continue south and to the west, then open the chest to get a Revive. 
Then, go back east and continue southward along the path, defeating the group 
of enemies that come to attack you. After that fight, open the chest to the 
far south and get a Shelter, then head east and north along the upper path. 
Follow that path north and west, then south and west until the path splits 
again. Here, take the southmost path to the west and open the chest you find 
to get a Mid Tonic. Go back and head north on the first path you pass. Go 
west and defeat the enemies, then open the chest in the southwest corner to 
get a Heal. Then, go back southeast to the path you came from and continue 
east to the green area. Head northwest and defeat the Gold Eaglets you 
encounter there. After you beat them, continue northwest along the path, then 
to the south where a couple of Runners will attack. Beat them, then head all 
the way east and south to a chest containing a Mid Ether. After that, take 
the path all the way west and south to exit this area completely.

Back in the overworld, use a Shelter to rest. Also, now would be a good time 
to save your game. After that, head south and enter the Reptite Lair.

Reptite Lair (65,000,000 B.C.)
------------------------------

When you enter this cave, go right into the following room. Here, go east and 
defeat the 4 Evilweevil enemies that you come across. Then, check out the 
hole in the ground to drop down into the next room. In that room, defeat a 
couple more Evilweevils and go down another hole to the room below. There, 
defeat the Megasaur (use Crono's *Lightning as advised by the people in 
Ioka). After you beat it, drop down the hole into another room. Here, defeat 
the Reptites and Megasaurs, then open the chest in the southwest corner to 
get a Rock Helm, which you should equip on Crono for now. Also, open the 
chest in the northeast area of the room to get a Full Ether. Now, go east and 
into the next room. Here, defeat the enemies in this room roaming around, 
then continue north and defeat the enemies guarding the door to the next 
room. After that, recover your HP/MP with a Shelter at the save point, then 
save your game before continuing.

When you're ready with your group (the group I'm taking here is Crono, Ayla, 
and Robo), continue north to the following room. Here, go north and your 
group will notice Azala standing there. Azala will ask you what the Gate Key 
is for; pick either answer since it doesn't really matter. Azala will call 
out Nizbel to fight you. Read the Bosses section for help on defeating this 
giant dinosaur. When you win, Azala will be amazed that the "apes" beat 
Nizbel. You'll regain the Gate Key, and then you'll automatically be taken to 
the Chief Hut in Ioka Village.

Ayla and Kino will say their goodbyes, as will your party. After that, leave 
the hut and visit the trading hut to the east. Trade in some of the Fangs, 
Horns, Feathers, and Petals you've found from defeating enemies to get new 
weapons for everyone in your party, as well as some Ruby Vests and Stone 
Helms if you have enough items to do so. If you don't, go out and fight 
enemies until you have what you need. After you're done trading here, 
continue south and west to Mystic Mountain.

Mystic Mountain (65,000,000 B.C.)
---------------------------------

When you arrive here, head all the way north while defeating the enemies 
along the way. Continue all the way to the next area. There, go northwest to 
reach the following area. Here, go north to the top of the cliff and jump off 
above the Gate to warp back to the End of Time. When you get there, take the 
warp to Medina Village in 1000 A.D.

Medina Village (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

When you arrive out of the closet here, leave the house and head southwest 
towards Melchior's Hut.

Melchior's Hut (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

Enter the hut and talk to Melchior, and he'll be surprised you have the 
Dreamstone and Masamune. He will then go and fix the sword, so go downstairs 
and wait. After Melchior is finished, you'll all go upstairs again and 
receive the fixed Masamune. Now it's time to bring it to Frog, so let's leave 
the hut.

Head northeast to the home in Medina Village you warped into, and go into the 
closet to warp again to the End of Time. From there, warp to Truce Canyon in 
600 A.D. When you get there, get through the simple enemies of the area until 
you're in the overworld area.

Outside, head southwest and along the path. Go across the Zenan Bridge to the 
south, then go southeast through Dorino and past Fiona's House. Continue 
south and west, then north to the Cursed Woods.

Cursed Woods (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you enter this area, head all the way north while defeating the enemies 
along the way. At the northmost point of this area, go behind the bush and 
climb into Frog's hideout. Talk to Frog and give him the Masamune, and he'll 
consider joining your group. Stay the night and you'll see a flashback of 
what happened with Glenn and Cyrus when they encountered Magus a while back. 
Anyway, when your group wakes up, Frog decides that they should all go to 
fight Magus. Crono and Frog must be in your group, so you can pick one more 
person to come with you. Pick either Lucca or Robo to come with you here (I 
chose Lucca this time around). When you're ready, leave the hideout and fight 
your way out of the woods again.

Back in the overworld, head east to the Porre Market and buy Frog a Gold Suit 
to enhance his defense for now. Then, continue all the way north to Truce 
Canyon again. When you get there, continue to the Gate and warp to the End of 
Time.

End of Time
-----------

When you get here, go down the hall to the middle room. Go through the north 
door into Spekkio's room, then talk to Spekkio inside to introduce Frog to 
him. Spekkio will teach Frog the *Water magic and allow your group to face 
Spekkio to try out the magic. Use magic spells to hurt Spekkio (doesn't 
matter if you win or not here). After you're done, leave the room and 
rest/save your game here. Then, go up the hallway to the north and take the 
warp to Truce Canyon in 600 A.D. again.

When you arrive there, head through the area to the overworld, then continue 
southwest and across Zenan Bridge. From there, head all the way east past 
Fiona's House and you'll come across another smaller mountain, which is the 
Magic Cave. So, save your game and recover, then enter the Magic Cave.

Magic Cave (600 A.D.)
---------------------

When you enter this area, Frog will have another flashback similar to the one 
from before. After the flashback, Frog will take the Masamune and break a 
hole in the wall, opening the Magic Cave. Your group will automatically run 
inside. There, defeat the Vamp and Gremlin enemies nearby. After that, 
continue east and north along the path through the cave. Defeat some more 
enemies and you'll see a pack of Gremlins run away. Run after them to the 
end, then defeat them and the other enemies that appear. Then, go north and 
up the steps to find a fallen soldier at the top. Check him out to find a 
note, regarding a creature in Magus's Lair known as the Juggler, and how it 
raises its guard when attacked. Anyway, continue north to exit this cave.

Out in the overworld again, rest with a Shelter and save your game here. When 
you're ready, go north and enter Magus's Lair.

Magus's Lair (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you enter this area, go straight ahead and Frog will point out the 
obvious. After that, continue ahead into the actual castle. Here, go straight 
up the stairs and take the left path into the next room. There, go north and 
talk to the people, then open the chest the boy is standing in front of to 
get a Mid Ether. Continue up the stairs and talk to the people there, then 
head into the next room. In this room, go straight ahead and open the 2 
chests in the corners to get another Mid Ether and a Shelter. Now, go back 
through the past couple of rooms to the main room you entered the castle in. 
Now, go east and enter the right room. Here, talk to the 4 kids surrounding a 
treasure chest, then continue to the following room. In this room, go north 
and you'll recognize some familiar faces. Open the chest along the way to get 
a Mid Ether, then continue to the next room. There's nothing here for you to 
take, so head back south to the first room of the castle. You'll now notice 
that there is a save point in the middle of the room. Go towards it and Ozzie 
will appear. He'll taunt Frog, then send a bunch of monsters to fight you 
before leaving. Defeat these creatures, then head into the west room again.

In this room, there will now be monsters for you to fight. Talk to the 
largest one straight ahead and defeat it, along with the skeletons nearby. 
Then, continue north and defeat some more enemies before heading into the 
next room. In the next room, talk to the people standing there and you'll 
find that none of them except the one in the middle will talk. Talk to the 
one in the middle and they'll all turn into Decedents for you to fight. Beat 
them and Slash will appear. Take a moment to recover your HP, then talk to 
him. You'll then enter battle, so read the Bosses section for help on winning 
here. After you win, take the Slasher sword that he leaves behind and equip 
it on Crono. Then, rest with a Shelter and save at the save point that 
appears. When you're ready, leave this room and head south while defeating 
the enemies along the way. Continue into the following room, and head east to 
the other side of the room. Then, enter the east room.

In the east room, go up and talk to the kids surrounding the treasure again. 
Tell them you want the treasure, and they'll turn into Shadows for you to 
fight. Use magic to defeat them, then open the chest to get a Barrier item. 
Now, continue ahead into the following room. Here, go up and talk to Taban 
(if Lucca is in your party; otherwise someone else will be there for the 
corresponding 3rd party member) in front of you. He'll turn into a monster, 
and several others will join in to fight. Defeat them, then continue up to 
see Queen Leene, who will also turn into a group of enemies to fight. Beat 
them and keep going north to meet Crono's mom, who turns into monsters as 
well. Defeat them all, then continue into the next room. Here, recover before 
talking to Flea up ahead. When you're ready, go up and talk to Flea to start 
the battle. Read the Bosses section for help on winning here. After the 
fight, check out the sparkling object on the floor to get a Magic Tab. Now, 
go south to leave this room. Head all the way south through here, defeating 
the people that turn into monsters along the way. Continue through to the 
next room, then walk around the chest there and keep going into the next 
room.

In this large room, go west to the save point and you'll be warped to another 
room. Here, go north and defeat the enemies along the way. At the end, you'll 
meet Ozzie again. He'll call for help, but since you defeated Flea and Slash, 
he'll run away. Open the chest to the right to get a Mist Robe (equip on 
Lucca or Marle, whoever's in your party). Then, continue to the next room. 
Here, you'll notice several conveyors belts with giant blades moving up and 
down on each belt. Go up the first belt when the blade is going up so you 
don't get hit (each time you're hit, you lose HP), then go down the next one. 
Open the chest to get a Dark Mail, which you should give to Frog. Then, 
continue up and down the conveyor belts, but be careful since Ozzie will 
increase the speed of which the blade goes up and down. When you get to the 
end, Ozzie will run away, so go west to where he was standing and open the 
chest to get a DoomFinger (weapon to equip on Robo). Next, go east and north 
into the next room.

There, go west through the side-view area while defeating the enemies along 
the way. Head all the way up the stairs and through this large side-view 
room, while continuing to defeat the enemies you encounter. Keep going all 
the way to the next room at the top. In this next room, go south and Ozzie 
will drop you into a room below, where you'll fight 6 Decadents. Kill them 
quickly with a *Lightning2 spell from Crono. After that, open the 4 chests in 
the upper-left and upper-right sides of the room to get a Mid Ether, a Lapis, 
a Barrier, and a Shelter. Also, get to the lower-right corner of the room and 
check out the sparkling object on the floor to get a Magic Tab. You'll notice 
there are 4 save points here, one on each side of the room. Two of them will 
attack you when you touch them, one of them is a real save point, and the 
last one is the one that'll warp you to the next area. The two that will 
attack are directly across from each other, so keep that in mind. Beat them 
and find the real save point, then rest/save before warping to the next room.

When you get back to Ozzie's trap room, walk around the hole in the floor and 
continue through the room. Continue and you'll be dropped into another trap 
room, which is the same exact room you were just in. Get to the warp to be 
brought back up, then continue through towards Ozzie. After going through 
several traps, you'll end up getting to Ozzie. He'll run away again, so 
follow him through the door into the next room. Make your way to the top of 
this side-view room while defeating the enemies along the way. In the 
following area, continue north and defeat the enemies that are raised up into 
the room along the way. When you get to the very end where Ozzie is standing, 
he'll run away once again. Open the chest to get a Speed Belt, then continue 
to the next room. Go up this hallway and defeat several more enemies, then 
open the chest at the end to get a Revive, and continue to the next room.

Here, you'll finally meet Ozzie face to face. Open the 2 chests in both 
corners to get a Mist Robe and a MagicScarf, then talk to Ozzie. He will then 
challenge you to battle, and you'll fight. Ozzie will be protected by a giant 
ice barrier, and when you hit him, your group will be hit by a counterattack, 
so be careful. Anyway, target one of the cranks on the side to make it turn. 
After each round, target the next one until Ozzie drops into a pit, ending 
the battle. When the save points appear, rest/save at the real one (the one 
to the right), then step into the warp to reach the next area. Head west and 
down the stairs, then defeat all the Vamps that follow you at the end. Then, 
just go into the next room. You'll hear a voice here, so continue north and 
you'll keep hearing the voice. Before you get to the end, I recommend you get 
Robo as your third party member to fight with Crono and Frog. When you get to 
the end, you'll meet Magus. After some words, you'll fight, so read the 
Bosses section for help on winning this fight. After the fight, a rumbling 
will occur and a giant Gate will suck everyone in. Your group will then 
awaken in Ayla's hut in 65,000,000 B.C.

Chief Hut (65,000,000 B.C.)
---------------------------

Upon arriving here, Ayla will explain that she found you all hurt by Mystic 
Mountains. After your group rests, she'll tell you to go to the Laruba area. 
Then, she'll call Kino and they'll both leave. Now, your group should go too.

Outside, go east to the hut, where the trader inside has different items to 
trade this time. You might not have enough Fangs, Feathers, Horns, or Petals 
left to get anything now, so just remember this place for later. Now, 
continue north and west to the Laruba's Ruins.

Laruba's Ruins (65,000,000 B.C.)
--------------------------------

When you enter this area, go up and the people will tell you that the 
Reptites took Kino and the village was ruined by them. Continue up and you'll 
hear Ayla talking to the old man about getting the Dactyl and beating the 
Reptites. After she leaves, follow her and leave this place.

Go back south and east, then take the path directly north to the Dactyl Nest.

Dactyl Nest (65,000,000 B.C.)
-----------------------------

In this area, go north and defeat the Cave Ape and Shist enemies. Then, head 
north all the way to the end, where you'll have to defeat 2 Avian Rex 
enemies. Beat them, then climb up the wall to the upper ledge and open the 
nearby chest to get a Mid Ether. Now, follow the path west and south all the 
way to the end, then defeat the 3 Shists you come across. Open the chest in 
the southeast corner to get a Mid Tonic, then continue north along the east 
side of the area. Climb up the wall, then head east to the next area. Here, 
defeat the enemies and head north. Climb up the wall at the end, then head 
south. Defeat the enemies here, then open the chest to get a Meso Mail, which 
you should equip on someone with lower defense. Then, climb up the next wall 
and continue north to the wall at the end. Head towards it and enemies will 
come out; beat them and climb up to continue on to the next area. Here, 
you'll see Ayla call the Dactyl, so head up to where she is. After a quick 
talk, she'll join your group and you'll have to choose who the third party 
member is. I recommend getting either Frog or Robo due to their strong attack 
power/healing abilities (I took Frog at this point). When you're ready, your 
group will leave on the backs of 3 dactyls.

Outside again, fly south and east to find a castle atop a high peak. Land 
there and save/rest, then enter the Tyrano Lair.

Tyrano Lair (65,000,000 B.C.)
-----------------------------

When you enter this area, go straight ahead and defeat the Cave Apes and 
Reptite. Then, go north and into the right skull through the room. Go up the 
stairs at the end to reach the next room. Here, go south and defeat the 
Reptites, then go right and press the switch next to the closed gate to free 
the group of prisoners there. Continue east and defeat the Reptites, then go 
down the stairs to the next room. Here, go south and west to find a bunch of 
Reptites bothering the prisoner. They'll spot you, so defeat them and head to 
the gate the Reptites were in front of a moment ago. Talk to Kino, who was 
trapped, and he'll explain what happened. Ayla will get in and break the 
gate, then Kino will run off wanting to show you something. Check inside the 
jail and open the chest to get a Mid Ether, then head back upstairs. Go 
around this room and follow Kino through the next couple rooms. When he stops 
in the first room of the lair, he'll open the left skull so you can go 
through. So, go up through that skull and head upstairs to the next area.

In this room, there are enemies on both sides of the room, with a floor 
switch on each side as well. If you want to fight, go up to the monsters and 
fight. But if not, just step on the floor switches and they'll drop into the 
pit so you don't have to fight. Head east and south through the right door to 
the next room. Here, defeat the groups of enemies and head into the next 
room. There are two chests here; open ONLY the first one to get a Full Tonic. 
The other one is a trap, so you don't want to bother with it. Now, go back to 
the room with the enemies and floor switches. Here, go all the way west and 
through the west door into the next area. This room is dark, and there are 
hidden warp tiles that take you to different parts of the room. It can be 
quite annoying, since you also have to fight enemies after warping to certain 
spots as well. Please consult my map for this room, posted at GameFAQs, for 
help getting through here and collecting the 4 treasures (Meso Mail, 
CeraTopper, Tonic, and Revive). Get to the upper-left area of the room, then 
continue up to the next room. Here, just head south to the following room.

Here, go east and defeat the enemies along the way. When you get to the other 
side of this area, go north into the open room. In this room, you'll see 2 
switches on the floor. Step on the right one to open the skull head in front 
of you. If you step on the left one, the head will open, but enemies will 
also come out. Go through the head to another room and hit the switch on the 
wall there, then go back south to the previous room. Go west and defeat the 
Avian Rex and Terrasaur, then head to the middle room that is now open. 
Defeat the Volcanoes and the Reptite that come out, and then go into that 
room. Here, talk to the giant creature known as Nizbel. Go around him and 
rest/save at the save point, then continue onward towards the steps leading 
to the next room. The giant creature by the entrance will stop and fight you, 
so read the Bosses section for help on beating Nizbel II. After the battle, 
rest and save again before continuing up the stairs into the next room. 
There, head south to the outside area again.

In this area, go south and all the way to the east side while defeating the 
enemies along the way. When you get to the east end, go north into the next 
room. Here, there are 3 floor switches; press the one on the left first to 
make 2 pits appear, hit the right one to make 2 Terrasaurs fall down, and hit 
the middle one to make a save point appear. You can only reach that save 
point if you didn't make the pits appear. Your best bet here is to ignore the 
left and right switches and hit the middle one for the save point. Go up to 
the skull head and press A to open it, then continue into the small room 
inside. Hit the switch on the wall to open the middle room outside, then open 
the chest to get a Full Ether. Save your game if you want in this room, 
otherwise continue out to the previous area. Go west and north in the middle, 
then defeat the Terrasaurs that come down to fight. After that, continue into 
the next room. Here, go up and you'll meet Azala again. You'll hear a roaring 
sound in the next room, and Azala will run off. Open the 2 chests here to get 
a Mid Ether and a CeraTopper. Now, go back to the room with the save point 
and recover/save there. When you're ready, come back here and go up to the 
next room. Go north and you'll meet a giant Black Tyrano. You'll have to 
fight, so read the Bosses section for help on winning.

After you beat them, Azala will crawl away and speak for a moment. Kino and 
the dactyls will come, and your group will fly out as Lavos crashes into the 
earth. After the scene at the ruins, your group will leave the area. In the 
overworld, save your game before going back into the Lair Ruins. There, check 
out the Gate and you'll be warped ahead to 12,000 B.C.

Cave (12,000 B.C.)
------------------

When you arrive here, head south to exit the cave and walk outside in this 
icy world.

Out here, head southeast to a lit up futuristic building, which is the 
Skyway.

Skyway (12,000 B.C.)
--------------------

The Skyway is the means of transportation to and from the floating world. 
Walk onto the purple circle to warp up there. When you arrive, exit the 
building.

Outside, go east and enter Enhasa, which is the nearby building on this 
floating area.

Enhasa (12,000 B.C.)
--------------------

In this magical place, talk to everyone standing around to learn information 
about this area. Get to the upper-left section of this place and a boy will 
deliver a haunting message. There is a blue circle on the floor which heals 
you and recovers your HP/MP when you walk over it. Also, check out the shop 
in the southwest area and buy some items. When you're done here, head back 
towards the entrance and leave here.

Back outside, go north to the Land Bridge and use it to warp back down to the 
icy continent. Continue northwest to another Skyway and use it to warp up to 
the floating continent again. There, head west across the bridge and visit 
the town of Kajar.

Kajar (12,000 B.C.)
-------------------

When you enter this "city", go around and talk to all the people here. Enter 
the upper-right room and check out the lower-right section of the room to 
find a Speed Tab. Talk to everyone here, especially the Nu in the upper-left 
corner. It'll give you a hint regarding water, wind, and fire. You'll notice 
in the previous room that there are 3 books scattered around, and when you 
open one, its element comes out. Back in that room, check the book in the 
upper-left area to open the water element. Go to the book in the lower-right 
area to open the wind book. Then, go to the middle area by the Nu behind the 
counter and check out the book there to open the fire one. Doing this will 
cause a hidden room to open up nearby. Enter it and check out the white 
creature in the middle of the room to get a Black Rock (you'll need this 
later). Leave here, buy some items if you want, then head out of this place 
completely.

Back outside, continue west to the giant airship known as the Blackbird.

Blackbird (12,000 B.C.)
-----------------------

In this area, head north and you'll see 2 guards blocking your path. Talk to 
them and a soldier will come to check up on things. He's known as Dalton and 
he apparently has something against you. After he leaves, it's best that you 
leave as well since there's nothing here for you to explore yet.

In the overworld again, head all the way east and across the bridge, then use 
the Land Bridge to return to the earth. Back there, head southeast to the 
other Skyway and take it back up. Then, head south and into Enhasa.

Enhasa (12,000 B.C.)
--------------------

In this place again, there are elemental books just like in Kajar. They also 
activate a hidden room if you open the books in the correct order (water, 
wind, fire). Check out the book in the upper-right area, and open its water 
power. The wind book is in the upper-left area, so open that one next. 
Finally, head to the entrance of Enhasa and open the book on the counter 
there to open the fire element. After you open the hidden room, enter it and 
talk to the Nu inside. Choose to fight it if you want and it'll split into 6 
Nus to fight. Use strong Dual Techs (Crono and Ayla's Falcon Hit works great 
against each row) to defeat them. After you win, you'll get a Speed Tab and a 
Magic Tab (this is optional; you don't have to fight unless you want those 
items). Now, leave this room and recover at the blue circle known as the 
Fountain of Recovery in the upper-left area of this place. Then, head to the 
exit of this place and leave.

Back in the overworld, head north and through the Land Bridge to get to the 
icy earth. There, go north and west to the next Skyway to warp back to the 
floating continent. Back here again, go west and across the bridge, but this 
time head north and into a Cave. Warp through the series of caves to reach 
the peak of the mountain, then enter Zeal Palace.

Zeal Palace (12,000 B.C.)
-------------------------

When you enter this palace, go and talk to the people wandering around. Head 
to the upper-right area of this large room and go north into that room, which 
the Nu tells you is the bedroom. Here, enter the east room and you'll hear a 
conversation between Schala and Janus. An assistant will come and tell Schala 
to come with her, so after they leave, talk to Janus if you want before 
leaving this room. Then, check out the west room and talk to the guy there. 
When you're done here, head back to the large main room. Go west and down the 
steps to the center area, then go north into the next room. Here, you'll see 
Schala use her pendant to open the mysterious door in front of them. After 
they go through, talk to the 2 people standing there. They'll notice Marle's 
pendant that you have, so leave this room and go west. Talk to the Nu in 
front of the door leading to the Mammon Machine. Enter that room and go up 
the hall to the following room. Here, go up to the red stone and press A to 
power up the pendant.

Now, head back to the center room where Schala opened that door. Check out 
the door and the pendant will activate, opening it for you. Enter that room 
and go forward, and the Queen will not be happy you're there. Dalton will 
summon Golem to attack you, so try to fight it. Don't worry about winning 
this fight; let it beat you and your group will be taken to a holding room. 
There, Schala and Janus will be standing there, and Schala will free you. The 
Prophet will come and ask how you came there, so you'll end up going to the 
Cave with the Gate inside. Your group will warp back in time and the Gate 
will be sealed against Schala's will.

Lair Ruins (65,000,000 B.C.)
----------------------------

When you arrive here again, your party will realize that the pendant can open 
those mysterious doors in other areas, particularly the ones in the domes in 
2300 A.D. Now, head south to exit this area.
Back in the overworld, go southeast to the dactyls and get on them to fly. 
Now, head west to Mystic Mountain and land, then enter the mountain.

Mystic Mts. (65,000,000 B.C.)
-----------------------------

In this area, head all the way north while defeating the enemies along the 
way. Continue into the next area, then keep going west and north to the 
following area. Here, go to the top of the cliff and jump into the Gate to 
warp to the End of Time.

End of Time
-----------

When you arrive here, go down the hall and into the middle room. Talk to the 
old man to get information on a device to travel through time in. Save/rest 
here, then go back to the room with the warp pillars, and head to the Proto 
Dome in 2300 A.D.

Proto Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

When you get here, go south to the next room. Here, head all the way south 
and out of this place.

Outside, go northwest to Lab 32. Race against Johnny, or just walk west to 
the other end, then go outside at the end. Go south and west from there and 
enter the Arris Dome.

Arris Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

In this area, follow the path to the area where the people are hanging 
around. From there, go around to the ladder in the middle of the area and 
climb down into the next room. Here, go around and through the east door to 
the following room. In this room, go west and north along the upper ledge to 
get to the north half of the room. From there, follow the path around to the 
next room. Now, get to the northeast corner of this room by the control panel 
and the sealed door. Open the sealed door by pressing A, then enter that 
room. Here, check out the sparkling object on the floor to get a Power Tab. 
Open the 4 chests to get a Lumin Robe, an Elixir, a Hit Ring, and a Gold 
Erng. After you're done here, backtrack through the past several rooms until 
you're back outside of Arris Dome.

In the overworld again, head north and west into Lab 16.

Lab 16 (2300 A.D.)
------------------
Here, head south and west, then north and west while defeating the enemies 
along the way, then continue west to the next area. In this area, go west and 
defeat the Craters at the end, then continue south and follow the path all 
the way around to the end. When you get to the end, go southwest to exit this 
place.

Outside once again, go south and west into Bangor Dome, which is your first 
stop over here.

Bangor Dome (2300 A.D.)
-----------------------

In this dome, ignore the Gate and open the sealed door with the pendant. 
Enter that room and open the 3 chests you find to get a Charm Top, a Full 
Ether, and a Wallet. Now, go back to the previous room and continue out of 
this place, then continue south to the Trann Dome.

Trann Dome (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

Here, follow the path through here to the sealed door at the end. Open it and 
enter the next room. Check out the sparkling object on the floor to get a 
Magic Tab, then open the chests to get a Gold Stud and a Full Ether. Now, 
leave this room and continue all the way out of here.

At this point, go north and head through Lab 16 again. After you get through 
it, continue east and southeast to the Sewer Access.

Sewer Access (2300 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter this area, go west and across the bridge, then head south into 
the next room. Follow the path east while avoiding the traps along the way 
(unless you want to fight), then climb up the ladder at the end to reach the 
next area. Here, go forward and defeat the 2 Edgers, then go east across the 
bridge. Follow the path south and east, then north and up the ladder to exit 
the sewers.

Back outside, go south to the Keeper's Dome.

Keeper's Dome (2300 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you enter this dome, go and talk to the sleeping Nu nearby. It forgets 
what to say, so go down the steps and head north through this room. Open the 
sealed door and enter that room. You'll see several sparkling stars appear on 
the floor throughout this room. Follow the path around here and talk to each 
one to learn information about Lavos. At the end, open the last sealed door 
and enter that room. Here, go straight ahead and walk around the giant object 
to the north wall. Your party will be surprised and confused of it, so head 
back around and south towards the exit of this room. Then, the Nu will walk 
in and introduce itself as Belthasar using the Nu's body. It'll explain how 
to use this vehicle, then when it falls asleep, talk to it again to be given 
the choice to name the machine (Epoch). When you're ready, go to the platform 
behind the Nu and press A to enter the Epoch. At this point, choose to go 
back to 12,000 B.C.

When you arrive here, go west and north to the Terra Cave. Be sure to use a 
Shelter outside, and save before entering here. Also, I recommend a party of 
Crono, Ayla, and either Marle or Lucca for this area (I took Lucca). Then, go 
ahead and enter this cave.

Terra Cave (12,000 B.C.)
------------------------

In this place, climb up the ladder in front of you and head west to the next 
area. Talk to the people here and enter the room on the top level. Buy some 
new weapons/armor for your group, then climb down the ladders to get through 
this place. Feel free to enter the rooms along the way down and talk to the 
people inside. You can also rest in one of the rooms to recover your HP/MP. 
When you get to the bottom, save at the save point and head east into the 
next area. Here, check out the sparkling object in the corner to get a Power 
Tab. Then, head north through here and defeat the Beasts along the way. You 
may want to have Ayla use her Charm Tech to steal R'Bow Helms from them, 
which are very good for your party at this point. I also recommend you put 
Frog and Lucca in your group (if you haven't already). After beating the 2 
groups of Beasts, heal your group and continue north to reach the bosses of 
this area: the Mud Imp, Blue Beast, and Red Beast. Read the Bosses section 
for help on beating them. After you win, continue north and go up the green 
chain to reach the next area, which is Mt. Woe.

Mt. Woe (12,000 B.C.)
---------------------

When you enter this area, touch the nearby rock to fight the Rubble. It'll 
most likely run away, so when it does, continue north and defeat the Bantam 
Imps and Stone Imps you encounter. Go north and west and fight the Rubble, 
then head south and west and open the chest to get a Lode Helm. Now, go back 
to the start of this area, and head west across the chain this time. Head 
north and defeat the enemies, then continue into the next area. In this area, 
go west and fight the Rubble. Next, head east and north and defeat the 
Gargoyles you meet. Then, continue north and rest/save at the save point. 
After that, head north and east towards the chain and you'll be attacked. 
Defeat the enemies, then go across and defeat the Rubble there. Open the 2 
chests to get a Lode Vest and a Shield. Now, go back across and head west to 
the end where you'll find a chest in the northwest corner. Approach it and 
enemies will attack; beat them and open the chest to get a Barrier. Now, go 
back east a tiny bit and take the path going south that you passed just a 
moment ago. Follow that path west and south, then go east and north to the 
upper ledge where the chest is. Defeat the enemies that appear, then open the 
chest to get a Lapis.

Now, head east and across the chain, where you'll be attacked by Stone Imps 
and Gargoyles at the other side. Continue east and south, then west again. 
Fight and defeat the enemies you encounter, then continue south and across 
the chain to the next section. Head to the southwest corner and defeat the 
Rubble for good experience/Tech Points, then go north and east to be attacked 
again. Beat the 4 Gargoyles, then go northeast and open the chest to get a 
Barrier. After that, continue eastward across the chain to the next area. In 
this area, go north and open the chest to get a Lapis. Then, head east and 
defeat the 4 Man Eaters that surround you (have Ayla Charm a Pearl Edge from 
one of them; it's a good weapon for Frog to use). Next, go southeast and 
across the chain to the next platform. Go south and defeat the enemies that 
surround you, then open the chest to get a Full Ether. Then, head north and 
open the other chest to get a Barrier. Now, go back across the chain and go 
north. Climb up that chain and continue going northward.

Continue heading north, then west at the end. Defeat the Rubble and go south, 
then east and south. Go and defeat the Man Eaters and Gargoyles, then open 
the 2 chests to get a Shelter and a Shield. Now, head all the way north and 
east across the chain, then head southeast and defeat the enemies there. 
Then, go north and rest/save at the save point, then continue up the chain to 
the next area. Here, go north and west around the bend, then open the chest 
to get a Time Hat. Continue east and across the chain, and then head south 
and west around the bend again to another chest. Open it to get a Full Ether, 
then go back east and all the way north. Before you climb the final chain, 
heal your party members and put Frog and Lucca in your party if you haven't 
already. After that, climb up to the next area. Here, go up to the giant 
crystal and it'll disappear, and the Giga Gaia will appear to fight. As 
usual, read the Bosses section for help on winning this fight. After you win, 
the giant crystal will reappear and the Guru of Life trapped inside will be 
freed, who ends up being Melchior in this time era. The mountain will then 
collapse, so your group will then retreat to the Terra Cave.

Terra Cave (12,000 B.C.)
------------------------

In a room within this place, Melchior will realize there's trouble going on 
here. Schala will come in with Janus, and she'll talk to Melchior about the 
current plans with the Ocean Palace. Dalton will then appear and force Schala 
to come with her, shooting at Melchior to push him aside. After they all 
leave, talk to Melchior again and he'll give you the Ruby Knife, which is 
used to stop the Mammon Machine later on. Now, leave this room and climb up 
the ladder to the top of this place, then go east to the next area. Climb 
down the ladder and continue south to exit this cave completely.

Outside, head south and all the way east past the Epoch, to the Skyway. Enter 
the Skyway and warp up to the floating land of Zeal. There, go northeast and 
use the Land Bridge to reach another area of the icy place below. From there, 
go north and west to the next Skyway, and take that to the mainland of Zeal. 
Then, head all the way west across the bridge, then north and through the 
caves to the very top of the mountain. When you get there, use a Shelter and 
save your game, then make sure Frog and Lucca are still in your group. Then, 
head into the Zeal Palace.

Zeal Palace (12,000 B.C.)
-------------------------

When you enter this palace, head all the way north through the middle of this 
room into the following room. Save at the save point, then continue all the 
way to the next room. Here, go up and you'll meet Dalton again. He'll fight 
you, so read the Bosses section of this guide for help here. After the battle 
is over, Dalton will open a Gate and warp away into it. Go back to the 
previous room and rest/save, then go back to that room and warp down to the 
Ocean Palace.

Ocean Palace (12,000 B.C.)
--------------------------

When you arrive in this underwater palace, go south and save at the save 
point. Then, talk to Mune who is standing guard and he'll disappear. You'll 
then see a quick scene with Schala and the Queen. After that, continue into 
the next room. Here, go south and take the first path to the east and into 
the northeast room. Walk on the floor switch to activate it, then defeat the 
Jinn and Barghest enemies. Leave this room, then go southwest and defeat the 
Scouters, then open the chest to the east to get a Rune Blade for Frog. Then, 
continue south and east and defeat the Scouters there. Open the chest to get 
an Aeon Suit. Now, head southwest along that path, then go all the way north 
and defeat the enemies along the way. Continue into the room all the way 
north, then step on the switch and beat those enemies as well. Then, continue 
into the following room and defeat the Blue Scouts and Mage there. Open the 
chest to get a Star Sword, then head directly east to the large room again.

Back in this large room, head southeast, then southwest into another room. 
Defeat the Red Scouts inside and open the chest to get a Shock Wave for 
Lucca. Then, continue south into the connected room and defeat all the 
enemies here. Open the chest in the bottom corner of the room to get a 
SonicArrow for Marle, then head east and hit the next floor switch. At the 
other end, go north and defeat the enemies, then open the chest to get a 
Kaiser Arm for Robo. Go north into the next room, then follow the path north 
and east into the following room. Here, defeat the enemies and open the chest 
to get an Aeon Helm. Then, go back west to the previous room and head 
southwest, then south across the newly formed bridge into the next room. 
Here, defeat the enemies and head west down the stairs to the following room.

In this room, go down the stairs and head south through here. Defeat the 
enemies that appear (Crono's *Luminaire works well here), then continue south 
and down some more stairs. At the bottom, beat the 4 Thrashers in that room, 
then continue down more stairs to the room below. Beat the enemies there and 
go down another set of stairs, then beat this last set of enemies. Talk to 
Masa at the top of the last set of stairs, then you'll see another scene with 
Schala and the Queen. After that, continue down to the next room. There, 
defeat the Jinn and Barghest, then rest/save at the nearby save point. I also 
recommend that you still have Frog and Lucca in your group. When you're 
ready, go south to the next room. Go south and beat all the enemies here, 
then check out the sparkling orb to the left to activate the elevator you're 
on. Along the way down, you'll have to fight several groups of enemies, so be 
prepared to fight/heal through here. At the very bottom when the elevator 
stops, go north into the next room.

Here, go along the west side of this room into another room. Defeat the 
Scouter, Red Scout, and Blue Scout inside. Then, hit the switch on the wall 
and leave this room. Go south and east, then along the east side of the room 
into the room at the other end. Beat the same 3 enemies in there and hit that 
wall switch, then go back to the previous room. Step on the blue switch in 
the middle of the room to make a lower path appear. You'll then be lowered 
onto that path, so head north into the next room. Go forward and open the 
chest to get an Elixir, then save/rest at the save point. At this point, make 
sure you have Frog in your group, as well as Lucca. Then, continue into the 
next room. Go north and you'll meet Dalton again, and he'll send the 
GolemTwins after you, so read the Bosses section for help on winning this 
battle.

After you win this rather simple battle, Dalton will prepare to send another 
Golem at you, but Lavos' energy shakes the room. When he leaves, continue 
into the following room. Talk to the Nu in your way and it'll move, then 
continue forward to see Schala and the Queen activating the Mammon Machine. 
Crono will use the Ruby Knife that Melchior gave him to try and stop the 
machine, but Lavos will emerge and fight you. Your group will quickly die 
off, and the Prophet will reveal himself as Magus to fight off Lavos. He'll 
quickly lose as well, and the Queen will use Lavos to try and destroy you. 
Have Crono go up and talk to Schala, and then Crono will be destroyed to stop 
Lavos. Another scene opens where Lavos emerges from the ground and the 
floating kingdom of Zeal comes crashing down, leaving your group stranded in 
a cave on some island known as the Last Village.

Last Village (12,000 B.C.)
--------------------------

When you wake up there, the Elder will give you the pendant and he'll tell 
you to find him at the commons afterward. So, reassemble your party (I had 
Frog, Ayla, and Robo in mine) and save, then leave the cave. Outside, visit 
the other 2 caves and buy supplies from the Nu (you can get a Magic Tab from 
behind the Nu when it leaves the room). After that, head northwest to the 
Commons.

Commons (12,000 B.C.)
---------------------

In this area, go north and talk to all the people along the way. At the end, 
talk to the Elder and you'll be interrupted. Dalton and his soldiers will 
come in and attack, then Dalton will send your group away into a jail inside 
the Blackbird.

Blackbird (12,000 B.C.)
-----------------------

When your party awakens, you'll find that all your items, weapons, and money 
were taken. Save at the save point here, then climb up the ladder to exit 
this room. Your group will realize you're in the air aboard the Blackbird, so 
head back inside. Your party will discover an air duct in the room, then 
you'll be given a couple of options on what to do next. If you have Ayla in 
your group (which you should; I even mentioned putting her in your group 
earlier), choose to pretend being sick. If she's not in your group, you'll 
have to go through the air ducts to get through this place. But since you 
have Ayla, you can just walk out the door. When the guard comes to see what 
the problem is (after you pretend being sick), you'll defeat the guard and be 
able to exit the room. Go south and out of here, then defeat the nearby Byte 
and head west. Enter the next room you come across and defeat the 3 Bashers 
inside. Open the chest they were guarding and you'll get your money back. 
Leave the room and go east to the conveyor belt to the south. Press A at the 
controls to make it move southward, then get on it and head south and west at 
the end. Defeat the Byte and enter the room, then defeat the Bashers and open 
the chest inside to get all the equipment from your 3rd party member 
returned!

Now, leave this room and defeat the Byte in the hallway again. Visit the room 
all the way to the east and defeat the Bashers inside if you want the extra 
experience. Then, check out the conveyor belt's controls to make it move in 
the other direction. Ride it to the north, and at the end, head east and 
north through the halls. When you come to the door with the 2 Bashers 
guarding, defeat them and enter that room. Defeat the Byte and open the chest 
to get your 2nd party member's stuff back. Leave this room and head west, 
then ride the conveyor north and continue to the next room. Defeat the 
Bashers standing guard, then head west and enter that room. Defeat the 
enemies here, and open the chest to get all your items back. Then, leave here 
the same way you came in and go up one of the conveyors. Continue north to 
get to the northwest area of the room by a ladder. Climb that ladder to get 
into the ducts, then go east and south the first chance you get. Head west at 
the first turn and go down the ladder at the end into another room you 
couldn't access otherwise. Defeat the sleeping Basher and open the chest to 
get your 1st party member's stuff!

Now that you have everything, go back up the ladder and head east, north, and 
west to the previous ladder. Back in the northwest area of the large room, go 
south and change the controls so the conveyor moves southward. Defeat the 
Byte on the conveyor, then ride it south and enter the southwest room. Defeat 
any enemies in here and go through the next door. Continue straight and up 
the ladder and you'll be in a new area. You'll be given one last chance to 
turn back if you missed anything, but you shouldn't have to, so choose "Don't 
care" and move on. Out here on the wing, hold B to run against the wind 
currents and defeat each of the Turrets for some really good experience/Tech 
points. After you clear the place out, heal your group and head to the 
southwest end of the wing. A giant creature known as the Golem Boss will 
appear to fight, so read the Bosses section for help on beating it. After the 
fight, you'll see a scene where Dalton has added wings to the Epoch, then 
flies away with it. He'll attack you, then you'll jump onto the Epoch to do 
battle, so read the Bosses section for help there as well.

After both those fights are complete, Dalton will get sucked into his own 
warp and you'll get the Epoch back. You'll then be told what buttons to push, 
so press each button as prompted and the Blackbird will end up being shot 
down. Your group will then fly away on the Epoch and land near the Last 
Village. Visit the Commons and talk to the people there to find out someone 
was looking for you. Leave and head northwest around the mountain to the 
North Cape.

North Cape (12,000 B.C.)
------------------------

In this area, head north and check out the sparkling object. Magus will then 
appear and tell you a story. After that, he'll ask if you want to fight or 
not. This guide goes on assuming you did NOT fight him. Anyway, say no and 
walk back to the south. He'll catch up and decide to join your group! Now, 
leave this area completely and head back to the Last Village. Enter the 
middle hut and talk to the Nu; it has a new supply this time. Buy new weapons 
and armor for your group to the Epoch. When you take off, your group will 
witness the Ocean Palace (now dubbed the Black Omen) rising from the sea. 
After that, press Y and warp to the End of Time.

End of Time
-----------

When you arrive here, go and talk to the old man in the center room. After 
his speech, head back toward the Epoch's dock and the man will call to you 
again. Go back and talk to him and he'll give you the Chrono Trigger. Your 
group will also realize that he's Gaspar, the Guru of Time. Now, get back on 
the Epoch and warp to 1000 A.D.

When you arrive in the year 1000, fly to the north and land, then enter 
Crono's house. Go upstairs and talk to his mother, and your group will act 
like everything's alright. (If you won the Crono Clone from Leene Square 
early in the game, take it now; if not, go to Leene Square and play the 40-
Point Game to win it.) After you have the Crono Clone, leave here and head 
south and across the bridge. Place Lucca in your party, then enter her house. 
Talk to Taban twice to get the Taban Suit and Taban Helm for Lucca. Now, 
leave here and head back to the Epoch. At this point, since you can now fly 
anywhere with the Epoch, it's time to seek out and unlock those mysteriously 
sealed chests you've seen throughout the game. Read the Secrets section of 
this guide for the locations/contents of those chests. Also, be sure to go 
back to 65,000,000 B.C. and head to the Laruba Ruins. Talk to the Nu there 
that offers to change your name, and get the SilverRock which is vital to 
performing a Triple Tech with Frog, Robo, and Ayla.

After you're done seeking out and taking the treasures from those mysterious 
boxes, board the Epoch and warp to 2300 A.D. There, fly to the island where 
the Black Omen is flying above and land, then enter the Keeper's Dome.

Keeper's Dome (2300 A.D.)
-------------------------

Here, go north and through the sealed door to the next room. Follow the path 
around this room, making sure to check out the sparkling object on the floor 
to get a Magic Tab. Talk to the Nu at the end and it'll explain how to 
restore life on Death Peak. Since you have the Clone, it'll carry out the 
plan. Three Poyozo Dolls will appear as this occurs. After the Nu steps back 
out and explains that those dolls will help you, it'll ask for you to shut it 
off. Go up to the Nu and press A to switch it off. Now, go back through the 
previous rooms to exit this place.

Outside, go northeast towards Death Peak, but before you enter, be sure to 
rest and save. Also, you may want to set up your party so it has Magus, Robo, 
and either Marle or Frog in it (I recommend taking Frog instead of Marle). 
When you're ready, save again and head into Death Peak.

Death Peak (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

As soon as you enter this area, run north and talk to the first Poyozo Doll 
you meet. It'll tell you to walk behind a tree when the wind starts up. This 
can be VERY tricky if you're not precise with the controls. You must walk in 
a straight line northward towards the tree, and continue holding Up so you're 
walking in place behind the tree. After the wind dies down, run further north 
and do that behind the next tree. Then, continue to the next area. Here, the 
wind is not a real problem anymore, go go west and defeat the 3 Krakkers. 
Continue west and open the chest to get a Magic Ring. Now, go back east and 
climb up the wall with the small notches on it. At the top, go southeast and 
defeat more Krakkers. Climb up the wall to the north and head east to the 
next area.

In this area, defeat the Krakker and Macabre enemies, then head north and 
east. Go across the frozen stream and open the chest to the east to get a 
Wall Ring. Head south and rest/save at the save point, then go northwest and 
up the path. Continue all the way north to a cave. Defeat the Macabres 
outside, then enter the cave. Here, go north and you'll have to fight a Lavos 
Spawn, so read the Bosses section for help on getting through this battle. 
After you win, open the nearby chest to get Robo's Giga Arm. Then, continue 
north out of this cave. Go north and east and defeat the Macabres along the 
way. Follow the path east and south into another cave. Go south and defeat 
the 3 Krakkers, then open the chest to get a BraveSword for Frog. Now, 
continue south to the following area. Here, go northwest and check out the 
sparkling object to make a cave open up below. Now, go back through the 
previous areas to the large area with the save point. Save again, then go 
north and enter that newly opened cave.

Here, go north and defeat the Krakker you come across, then open the chest to 
get a StarScythe for Magus. Equip it, then continue to the next area. Here, 
you'll have to fight another Lavos Spawn, so read the Bosses section if you 
need help on taking this one down as well. After you win, go west to the next 
area. There, go north and talk to the Poyozo Doll; it'll warn you of the 
slippery path up ahead. Go west and hold B so you can run, then run along the 
path as best as you can. Be careful not to fall off the south end, because 
you'll be dropped off by the save point below and you'll have to do this 
again! When you get to the end, continue to the next area. Here, defeat the 
Krakkers as they fall down to this area, and open the chest to the west to 
get a VedicBlade, which you can equip Crono with later on. Now, head all the 
way south and to the next area. There, keep going south and west to the 
following area.

Now, in this new area, go north and talk to the Poyozo Doll there. It'll give 
you a hint on what to do up ahead (push and climb the shell). Continue west 
and down the wall, then follow the path west and north to another Lavos 
Spawn. Defeat it like before and you'll notice that the giant shell is left 
behind this time. Push it east and north against the wall, then press A and 
climb onto it. From there, climb up the wall to reach the higher ledge. Go 
east and open the chest to get a Memory Cap. Then, continue northwest to the 
next area. Here, go all the way north to the summit. Here, the pendant will 
react and the Chrono Trigger will shatter in the air. A gate will then open 
up and your group will end up in a frozen state of time where you fought 
Lavos earlier. Go up to Crono and replace the Clone for him, then your group 
will return to Death Peak with Crono. After the return, you'll end up at the 
End of Time.

End of Time
-----------

In this place, go and talk to the old man and he'll explain how and when you 
can fight Lavos. He'll also list off a bunch of side quests you can fulfill 
right now. So, assemble whoever you want in your party, then you can either 
go and fight Lavos now, or you can go and fulfill some side quests (see the 
Side Quests section for details on each one). Whenever you feel you're ready, 
rest up and save, then check out the bucket in the upper-right corner to warp 
to 1999, where you'll fight Lavos for the last time.

Day of Lavos (1999 A.D.)
------------------------

When you arrive here, head north and you'll witness a scene with Lavos coming 
out of the ground to attack. You'll then be given the choice whether to go on 
and fight, or back out for now. If you choose to fight, read the Bosses 
section for what you should do for each part of this multi-part battle. When 
you're done, congratulations on beating Chrono Trigger!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Enemies  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Prehistoric Ages (65,000,000 B.C.) Enemies
------------------------------------------

Amphibite
    HP: 100    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Horn (x2)
    Item Dropped: N/A

Anion
    HP: 152
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Petal (x2)
    Item Dropped: N/A

Avian Rex
    HP: 327
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Feather

Cave Ape
    HP: 436
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Fang
    Item Dropped: N/A

Croaker
    HP: 100
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Fang (x2)
    Item Dropped: N/A

Evilweevil
    HP: 158
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: Dream Gun
    Item Dropped: Feather

Fly Trap
    HP: 316
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Dream Bow
    Item Dropped: Petal

Gold Eaglet
    HP: 400
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Ether
    Item Dropped: Feather
    Note: After you attack it enough, it'll become a Red Eaglet and shoot
          fire at you as a counterattack each time you hit it.

Ion
    HP: 152
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Feather (x2)
    Item Dropped: N/A

Kilwala
    HP: 160
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Petal
    Item Dropped: Petal

Megasaur
    HP: 830
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Aeon Blade
    Item Dropped: Fang
    Note: Use lightning spells to shock it, lowering its defense so you can
          hit it better with regular attacks.

Nu
    HP: 1234
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Mop
    Item Dropped: Third Eye (First time you fight it only)
                  Fang (x3), Horn (x3), Feather (x3), Petal (x3)
    Note: This creature is rare in this time era. It is only found in the
          Hunting Range, and it comes out when it rains, so you better be
          fast to find it.

Rain Frog
    HP: 100
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Feather (x2)
    Item Dropped: N/A

Red Eaglet
    HP: 400
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Feather

Reptite
    HP: 92
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Magma Hand
    Item Dropped: Petal
    Note: Use lightning spells to shock it, lowering its defense so you can
          hit it better with regular attacks.

Reptite (Inside Tyrano Lair)
    HP: 336
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Mid Tonic
    Note: Use lightning spells to shock it, lowering its defense so you can
          hit it better with regular attacks.

Runner
    HP: 196
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Horn
    Item Dropped: Horn
    Note: Use lightning spells to shock it, lowering its defense so you can
          hit it better with regular attacks.

Shist
    HP: 250
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Petal
    Item Dropped: Petal

Shitake
    HP: 158
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: Petal
    Item Dropped: Fang

Terrasaur
    HP: 1090
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Lapis
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Use lightning spells to shock it, lowering its defense so you can
          hit it better with regular attacks.

Volcano
    HP: 257
    Weaknesses: Water
    Item Charmed: Lapis
    Item Dropped: N/A

Winged Ape
    HP: 450
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: Fang
    Item Dropped: Fang


Dark Ages (12,000 B.C.) Enemies
-------------------------------

Bantam Imp
    HP: 250
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: AlloyBlade
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: After you deplete the HP from this creature, the bird will die and
          the imp will fall, becoming a Stone Imp.

Barghest
    HP: 450
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Shield
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: You fight this creature along with a Jinn, and it protects the Jinn
          with a shield. You should defeat this one first to destroy the
          shield protecting the Jinn.

Basher
    HP: 150
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
Beast
    HP: 830
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: R'Bow Helm
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Each time you hit it with magic/regular attacks, its attack power
          goes up, so be careful.

Blue Scout
    HP: 300
    Weaknesses: Water
    Item Charmed: Shield
    Item Dropped: N/A

Byte
    HP: 192
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Gargoyle
    HP: 260
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Big Hand
    Item Dropped: N/A

Jinn
    HP: 450
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Lapis
    Note: You fight this creature along with a Barghest, which protects it
          with a shield. Defeat the Barghest to destroy the shield, so you
          can attack Jinn normally.

Lasher
    HP: 666
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Mage
    HP: 480
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Barrier
    Item Dropped: Lapis

Man Eater
    HP: 250
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Pearl Edge
    Item Dropped: N/A

Nu
    HP: 1234
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Mop
    Item Dropped: Magic Tab, Speed Tab

Red Scout
    HP: 300
    Weaknesses: Fire, Shadow
    Item Charmed: Barrier
    Item Dropped: N/A

Rubble
    HP: 515
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Mid Ether
    Note: At the beginning of the battle, it'll use a move preventing your
          entire group from using Techs/magic. However, if you defeat it, you
          will be greatly rewarded, although your attacks mostly miss.

Scouter
    HP: 300
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Lapis
    Item Dropped: N/A

Stone Imp
    HP: 300
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Thrasher
    HP: 666
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Turret
    HP: 700
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Mid Ether
    Note: At the beginning of the battle, it'll use a move preventing your
          entire group from using Techs/magic. However, if you defeat it, you
          will be greatly rewarded, although your attacks mostly miss.


Middle Ages (600 A.D.) Enemies
------------------------------

Base
    HP: 88
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Normal attacks don't affect this creature, so use magic to fight
          it.

Bellbird
    HP: 94
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Heal
    Item Dropped: Heal

Blue Eaglet
    HP: 16
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Blue Imp
    HP: 13
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Deceased
    HP: 110
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Normal attacks don't affect this creature too much, so use magic to
          finish it off quickly.

Decedent
    HP: 67
    Weaknesses: Lightning, Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Defunct
    HP: 1450
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: Lapis
    Item Dropped: Lapis

Diablos
    HP: 50
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Flunky
    HP: 390
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Fossil Ape
    HP: 1800
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: MegaElixir
    Item Dropped: Lapis

Free Lancer
    HP: 110
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Barrier
    Item Dropped: N/A

Gigasaur
    HP: 2250
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Ruby Armor
    Item Dropped: Barrier
    Note: Use lightning spells to shock it, lowering its defense so you can
          hit it better with regular attacks.

Gnasher
    HP: 90
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Revive

Gnawer
    HP: 210
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Goblin
    HP: 146
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Green Imp
    HP: 32
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Gremlin
    HP: 110
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: This creature has strong defense, so use magic to defeat it
          quickly.

Grimalkin
    HP: 120
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Groupie
    HP: 390
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Hench
    HP: 49
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Hench (inside Magus's Lair)
    HP: 180
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Hexapod
    HP: 1000
    Weaknesses: Water, Shadow
    Item Charmed: Lapis
    Item Dropped: Lapis
    Note: When you use water on this creature, its defense will greatly drop,
          so you'll have an easier time defeating it with normal attacks.

Imp Ace
    HP: 54
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Juggler
    HP: 450
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: This creature is quite different than any others you've seen. When
          you hit it with a physical attack, it'll raise its physical
          defense, while lowering its magic defense. Hit it with a magic
          attack and the opposite will occur, so it's recommended your party
          alternates between magic and regular attacks each round.

Leaper
    HP: 800
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Elixir
    Item Dropped: Shield

Lizardactyl
    HP: 950
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: HyperEther
    Item Dropped: N/A

Mad Bat
    HP: 18
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Mohavor
    HP: 400
    Weaknesses: Water, Shadow
    Item Charmed: Shield
    Item Dropped: N/A

Naga-ette
    HP: 60
    Weaknesses: Magic, Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Ogan
    HP: 146
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: Shield
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: All attacks don't affect this creature much as long as it's
          carrying a weapon. Use a fire spell to burn the weapon, then it'll
          become a Goblin, which is affected by regular attacks.

Omnicrone
    HP: 218
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Ether

Outlaw
    HP: 182
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Poly
    HP: 99
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Ether
    Item Dropped: Tonic

Reaper
    HP: 1450
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: Elixir
    Item Dropped: N/A

Roly
    HP: 24
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Roly Bomber
    HP: 99
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Be careful because when you take all its HP, it'll explode causing
          damage to your whole party.

Roly Rider
    HP: 30
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Rubble
    HP: 515
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Mid Ether
    Note: At the beginning of the battle, it'll use a move preventing your
          entire group from using Techs/magic. However, if you defeat it, you
          will be greatly rewarded, although your attacks mostly miss.

Save Point
    HP: 10
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Sentry
    HP: 1280
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: HyperEther
    Item Dropped: Full Ether

Shadow
    HP: 1
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: You cannot hurt this creature with normal attacks; use magic-based
          techs to defeat it.

Sorcerer
    HP: 220
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Mid Ether

T'pole
    HP: 150
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Mid Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Vamp
    HP: 120
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Normal attacks don't affect this creature too much, so use magic to
          finish it off quickly.


Present (1000 A.D.) Enemies
---------------------------

Avian Chaos
    HP: 45
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Beetle
    HP: 12
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Blue Shield
    HP: 24
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Tonic
    Note: This creature protects itself with a large shield, but when it
          moves the shield aside, revealing itself as Yodu De, that's when
          you should attack.

Cave Bat
    HP: 108
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: Revive
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Normal attacks don't affect this creature too much, so use magic to
          finish it off quickly.

Decedent
    HP: 67
    Weaknesses: Lightning, Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Gato (In the Millennial Fair)
    HP: 76
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Power Meal
    Item Dropped: N/A

Gnasher
    HP: 90
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: Revive
    Item Dropped: Revive

Guard
    HP: 60
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Tonic

Hetake
    HP: 14
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Tonic

Jinn Bottle
    HP: 97
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: Shield
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Normal attacks don't affect this creature too much, so use magic to
          finish it off quickly.

Naga-ette
    HP: 60
    Weaknesses: Magic, Fire
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Octoblush
    HP: 80
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Omnicrone
    HP: 218
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: Ether

Rolypoly
    HP: 50
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Tempurite
    HP: 88
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: Normal attacks don't affect this creature too much, so use magic to
          finish it off quickly.

Yodu De
    HP: 1
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A


Future (2300 A.D.) Enemies
--------------------------

Acid
    HP: 10
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Barrier
    Item Dropped: N/A

Alkaline
    HP: 9
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Bug
    HP: 89
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Heal
    Item Dropped: Heal

Bugger
    HP: 100
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Crater
    HP: 80
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Debugger
    HP: 120
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Debuggest
    HP: 1024
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Shield
    Item Dropped: Shield

Edger
    HP: 160
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Krakker
    HP: 500
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Laser Guard
    HP: 400
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Full Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Macabre
    HP: 582
    Weaknesses: Shadow
    Item Charmed: Full Ether
    Item Dropped: Ether

Meat Eater
    HP: 75
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: Ether
    Item Dropped: Ether

Mutant
    HP: 300
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Full Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Nereid
    HP: 138
    Weaknesses: Lightning, Shadow
    Item Charmed: Ether
    Item Dropped: N/A

Octopod
    HP: 130
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Mid Ether
    Item Dropped: N/A

Proto 2
    HP: 128
    Weaknesses: Shadow
    Item Charmed: Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Proto 3
    HP: 256
    Weaknesses: Shadow
    Item Charmed: Full Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Proto 4
    HP: 1024
    Weaknesses: Lightning
    Item Charmed: Barrier
    Item Dropped: Barrier

Rat
    HP: 45
    Weaknesses: Shadow
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Shadow
    HP: 1
    Weaknesses: Magic
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: You cannot hurt this creature with normal attacks; use magic-based
          techs to defeat it.


Black Omen Enemies
------------------

Alien
    HP: 1350
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Magic Tab
    Item Dropped: Shield

Blob
    HP: 1050
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Magic Ring
    Item Dropped: Barrier

Boss Orb
    HP: 850
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Cybot
    HP: 1800
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Power Meal
    Item Dropped: HyperEther

Flyclops
    HP: 900
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Gold Stud
    Item Dropped: N/A

Goon
    HP: 2800
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Nova Armor
    Item Dropped: Elixir

Incognito
    HP: 110
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: MuscleRing
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: This creature protects itself with a large shield, but when it
          moves the shield aside, revealing itself as PeepingDoom, that's
          when you should attack.

Laser Guard
    HP: 400
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Full Tonic
    Item Dropped: N/A

Martello
    HP: 1245
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: HyperEther
    Item Dropped: N/A

Metal Mute
    HP: 1980
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: HyperEther
    Item Dropped: N/A

Panel
    HP: 1875
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Speed Tab
    Item Dropped: N/A

PeepingDoom
    HP: 1
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A

Ruminator
    HP: 1500
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: MegaElixir
    Item Dropped: N/A

Sidekick
    HP: 1250
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Item Dropped: N/A
    Note: At the beginning of the battle, it'll use a move preventing your
          entire group from using Techs/magic. However, if you defeat it, you
          will be greatly rewarded, although your attacks mostly miss.

Synchrite
    HP: 2250
    Weaknesses: N/A
    Item Charmed: Gold Erng
    Item Dropped: HyperEther

Tubster
    HP: 2150
    Weaknesses: Fire
    Item Charmed: Power Tab
    Item Dropped: Elixir

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Bosses -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Yakra
    Found: Cathedral (600 A.D.)
    HP: 920
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This is the very first boss creature you'll fight in this game,
              and it really isn't too tough. Every time you attack it, it'll
              bounce around the room and hit your entire party to cause some
              damage. I recommend you use Crono and Frog's X-Strike Dual Tech
              (provided you learned it by now) to attack this creature. If
              you don't, just have your group use regular attacks, and heal
              when and if necessary. Keep on attacking and healing until you
              win.

Dragon Tank/Grinder/Tank Head
    Found: Guardia Castle (1000 A.D.)
    HP: (Dragon Tank) 600, (Grinder) 208, (Tank Head) 266
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This battle is going to be a bit longer and tougher for you to
              beat here. The Tank Head cures the rest of the tank, so your
              first target here is the Tank Head. Have Crono and Lucca attack
              the head, curing when necessary since the Dragon Tank's attacks
              can be a bit overwhelming after a while. After the head is
              defeated, you should try to beat the Grinder. A message
              displays saying that energy is stored in the wheels, which in
              this case is the Grinder. Use the same strategy as for the Tank
              Head to destroy the Grinder. After you beat that, your final
              target should be the Dragon Tank itself. This part of the
              battle will also be the longest part. The Dragon Tank will
              either shoot a beam at one of your allies, or drop a few
              missiles on them. Keep your HP high and continue the attacking
              until you win.

Guardian/Bit (x2)
    Found: Arris Dome (2300 A.D.)
    HP: (Guardian) 1200, (Bit) 200
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This battle is going to be a bit tough, especially if you don't
              keep your group in good shape. Anyway, if you attack the main
              Guardian boss, it along with the 2 Bits, will retaliate with a
              strong attack aimed at your whole group. The first course of
              action here is to eliminate both Bits. Concentrate on one at a
              time, then take care of the other after the first Bit is
              defeated. After both Bits are beat, now is the time to quickly
              attack the Guardian. It'll start to count down from 5 to 0,
              then revive both Bits. Until then, continue the attack on the
              Guardian. When the Bits are revived, repeat the same strategy
              as before to eliminate them, then concentrate on the main boss
              again. Keep your group in good shape, and continue the
              attacking until you win this fight.

Sir Krawlie
    Found: Sewer Access (2300 A.D.)
    HP: 500
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This fight shouldn't be too hard for you to get through.
              Krawlie will take one of your party members and slam them
              around a bunch of times, reducing their HP to 1, so make sure
              you have some Tonics and Mid Tonics ready to quickly recover
              from such an attack. Use Crono and Robo's Rocket Roll Dual Tech
              (if it's available), while Lucca attacks or heals your group.
              Repeat the strategy above until you defeat this rather simple
              creature.

R Series (x6)
    Found: Factory (2300 A.D.)
    HP: 180
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This battle is against 6 robots known as the R Series, but it
              really isn't too bad of a fight, despite the 6 to 2 ratio. Use
              Crono and Lucca's Fire Whirl Dual Tech on an entire line of the
              robots once or twice to defeat that row. If you need it, take a
              turn or so to heal your group before continuing the attack.
              Then, repeat the process on the remaining row until they're all
              defeated too.

Heckran
    Found: Heckran Cave (1000 A.D.)
    HP: 2100
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: Despite the large amount of HP this creature has, it won't take
              too long for you to beat this boss, provided you follow this
              strategy. Like other creatures in the cave, this boss is only
              affected by magic attacks, which means you should have Crono,
              Lucca, and Marle attack with their appropriate magic spells.
              You should have Marle and Lucca perform their Dual Tech
              Antipode to cause a good amount of damage. There is one part of
              this battle in which you should be extremely careful not to
              attack Heckran during that part. Sometime during the battle,
              Heckran will curl up and try to verbally provoke you into
              attacking it. By all means, do NOT attack it or your party will
              be hit by a strong water wave attack! You should heal at this
              point if you need to. When Heckran uncurls, resume the magic
              attacks once again, then continue this strategy until you beat
              it.

Zombor
    Found: Zenan Bridge (600 A.D.)
    HP: (Top) 960, (Bottom) 800
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: In this battle, there are two parts of Zombor for you to fight.
              Both parts have different weaknesses as well (use Ice on the
              top, and Fire or Lightning on the bottom), which means it's
              best if you have Lucca and Marle in your party here. Anyway,
              start by attacking the top part with Marle's Ice spell, and
              have Crono and Lucca attack it. Every couple of rounds, Zombor
              will hit you with a fire attack, which won't cause too much
              damage to whoever it hits. Continue the attack on the top until
              you defeat it, then concentrate on the bottom half. Use Crono
              and Lucca's Lightning and Fire spells, while Marle attacks or
              heals. Keep doing that until you win this rather simple fight.

Masa/Mune
    Found: Denadoro Mts. (600 A.D.)
    HP: (Masa) 1000, (Mune) 1000
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This fight is pretty simple, since you only have to defeat one
              of the two brothers here. I recommend going against the left
              brother, since each time you attack the right one, you'll be
              hit by a counterattack. Just keep pounding the left brother
              with your techs and regular attacks, healing if necessary,
              until you defeat him. At this point, the battle will be over.

Masa & Mune
    Found: Denadoro Mts. (600 A.D.)
    HP: 3600
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This battle will be a bit tougher than the first round when the
              brothers were separated. Use lots of strong regular attacks and
              Techs, as well as Crono and Robo's Dual Tech Max Cyclone (if
              already learned). When this creature starts storing energy (the
              dialogue box tells you when it's doing that), have Crono use
              the Slash Tech to release that energy, preventing it from using
              a strong tornado attack (a person in the Dorino Inn gave you
              this useful hint). Keep using Mid Tonics when needed, and
              continue with the strong attacks. Use Crono's Slash when energy
              is being stored anytime throughout this battle. Repeat the
              above strategy until you win this fight.

Nizbel
    Found: Reptite Lair (65,000,000 B.C.)
    HP: 4200
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This giant dinosaur isn't really as tough as it seems. Like the
              other dinosaur enemies, this one is susceptible to lightning,
              so have Crono use *Lightning (the Dual Tech Volt Bite with Ayla
              works too) on this boss. Doing so will lower its defense so you
              can attack it for a few rounds, so get as many strong attacks
              in as you can. Then, Nizbel will discharge electrical energy on
              the whole party, causing a couple hundred HP of damage, so be
              prepared to use some Mid Tonics after that attack. After you're
              healed, repeat the same battle pattern as above until you win
              this battle.

Slash
    Found: Magus's Lair (600 A.D.)
    HP: 5200
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This battle is split into two parts, with the first part being
              the easier one. For the first half, just use lots of regular
              attacks against Slash. Have Lucca (or whoever your third party
              member is) heal using Tonics or Mid Tonics when needed. Slash's
              attacks aren't too tough at this point, so you won't have a
              hard time winning the first round. After you win the first one,
              Slash will take the sword off the wall and fight you for round
              2. This time, his attacks are much worse, as well as quick and
              powerful. Use lots of strong attacks, as well as Frog and
              Crono's Dual Tech, X-Strike. Slash will shoot a dark light
              straight through a couple of your party members, but that isn't
              too bad compared to some of his other moves later in the fight.
              After you take away enough damage, Slash will start to jump and
              slice one of your party members, causing over 100 HP of damage
              in one shot, so be prepared to use lots of Mid Tonics for this
              last part of the battle. When Slash starts saying "Yes
              indeed!", that's when his attacks come much faster and more
              powerful, so be ready to keep everyone alive. Continue the
              attacking, while healing every other round until you win this
              fight.

Flea
    Found: Magus's Lair (600 A.D.)
    HP: 4120
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: When you enter battle against this boss, there is a question
              mark next to its name. Use regular attacks here to quickly kill
              off this fake, but be careful since it'll drain all of the MP
              from whoever delivers the final blow to it. After that, the
              real Flea will appear and you'll have to fight him. Continue
              using strong regular attacks and Dual Techs when you can. Flea
              uses many magic spells that cause status effects to your group,
              so be careful! About halfway through, each time you hit Flea,
              he'll counterattack with an attack, so make sure you keep
              everyone's HP high for the duration of this fight. Keep on
              attacking and healing after every round until the battle ends
              and you win.

Magus
    Found: Magus's Lair (600 A.D.)
    HP: 6666
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: The fight against Magus here is the toughest fight you've been
              in thus far. Each time you attack, he'll counterattack, hitting
              your entire party. Magus has a barrier up, and only one type of
              magic spell can get through it each time. You can get Magus to
              change the barrier to another spell type by attacking him.
              Also, whenever Frog attacks (Masamune equipped), Magus's magic
              defense lowers so your magic will cause more damage. Anyway,
              attack with whatever type of magic the barrier says can get
              through at the time, making sure to heal your whole group
              (that's why Robo is good here, for his Heal Beam Tech) every
              couple rounds or so. After a while, a message will appear
              saying Magus risks casting a spell. Also, he'll start using
              Dark Matter, which is a VERY powerful Tech that can take 200+
              HP from your whole group in one shot. For this part of the
              fight, use your strongest attacks (if Crono, Frog, and Robo
              have their Triple Tech "Triple Raid", that'll really help
              here). Continue the attack while healing every couple rounds
              until you win.

Nizbel II
    Found: Tyrano Lair (65,000,000 B.C.)
    HP: 4200
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This fight against the descendant of the original Nizbel isn't
              very hard to beat. Each time you use a regular attack, its
              defense will rise, so stick to using Lightning magic (Crono and
              Ayla's Dual Tech Volt Bite works here) to attack. Each time you
              hit it with Lightning, it'll become shocked. After a while,
              it'll release the electrical energy to cause lots of damage to
              your group, so you should be ready to have Frog and Ayla heal
              when necessary. Keep your group in good shape and continue
              using the Volt Bite Dual Tech until you win.

BlackTyrano
    Found: Tyrano Lair (65,000,000 B.C.)
    HP: (BlackTyrano) 10500, (Azala) 2700
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This battle can be a bit difficult, especially with the large
              amount of HP that the BlackTyrano has. For the first part of
              the fight, concentrate on beating Azala. Have Crono use
              *Lightning, and have the others heal or use Dual Techs to cause
              added damage. Watch out when BlackTyrano eats one of your
              characters, taking away a couple hundred HP in one shot. After
              a while, BlackTyrano will start to count down, which means you
              can now attack it. Finish off Azala, and be careful of its HP
              Break attack. Your target is now BlackTyrano, so use lots of
              strong attacks/Dual Techs to cause lots of damage here. As this
              boss counts down, it'll roar, gradually causing your group to
              lose HP. When it hits 0, BlackTyrano will use a strong fire
              attack on your whole group, so be prepared to heal after that.
              At this point, BlackTyrano's defense goes back up, so now's
              your chance to heal or use regular attacks to chip away at its
              HP. When the defense is lowered again (a message box will tell
              you when this happens), continue the all-out attack from
              before. Use lots of strong Dual Techs and heal when needed,
              especially after the fire attack. Repeat the above pattern
              until you defeat this boss.

Mud Imp/Blue Beast/Red Beast
    Found: Terra Cave (12,000 B.C.)
    HP: (Mud Imp) 1200, (Blue Beast) 5000, (Red Beast) 5000
    Item Charmed: (Mud Imp) Speed Tab, (Blue Beast) Mermaid Cap
                  (Red Beast) Elixir
    Strategy: This battle can be a bit tough, so I recommend you have Frog in
              your group since he can heal your entire party at once. Also,
              each time you attack one of the colored beasts, whichever one
              you hit will charge at you to counterattack. The Mud Imp's
              defense is high, so I recommend you take out the two beasts,
              one at a time. The Blue Beast is weak against Fire, and the red
              one is weak against Water. Let's start by killing off the Blue
              Beast here. Have Lucca use *Fire, Frog attack/heal, and Crono
              use *Lightning2 to hit the entire group at once for a good
              amount of damage. Continue that attack until you beat the Blue
              Beast. Now, repeat the same battle pattern for the Red Beast,
              but have Frog use *Water 2 and Lucca can heal with items. After
              you beat the Red Beast, start to attack the Mud Imp. Each time
              you hit it, it heals itself, so use strong Dual Techs to finish
              it off quickly.

Giga Gaia
    Found: Mt. Woe (12,000 B.C.)
    HP: 9500
    Item Charmed: Speed Tab
    Strategy: As soon as the battle starts, Giga Gaia will hit your party
              with 2 attacks to weaken you a little bit. Have Frog use *Heal
              right away to recover from those attacks. Anyway, there are 3
              parts of this boss you can attack; the head, the left hand, and
              the right hand. I recommend targeting the left hand since it's
              the main attacking one, and if both hands are alive, they'll
              perform their double attack like before. Use lots of strong
              Dual Techs on the head, as well as any Triple Techs if you
              learned any. Have Frog use *Heal every couple rounds to keep
              your group in good shape, then continue the attacking on the
              main head until you win.

Dalton
    Found: Zeal Palace (12,000 B.C.)
    HP: 3500
    Item Charmed: Power Meal
    Strategy: This battle can be a bit tough, especially since each time you
              attack, Dalton will counterattack by halving that character's
              HP. Have Frog use *Heal every round while Crono and Lucca use
              their strongest Single/Dual Techs. If Crono has already learned
              *Luminaire, it'll really help if you use that. Just keep up the
              attacks and have Frog continue to heal until the end. Dalton
              will then hit your group with an attack before leaving, but
              that isn't much to worry about either.

Golem (x2)
    Found: Ocean Palace (12,000 B.C.)
    HP: 7000 each
    Item Charmed: Magic Tab
    Strategy: This can be such a quick battle, especially if Crono, Frog, and
              Lucca know all their Single Techs. The Golems will halve your
              party's HP, so be prepared to have Frog use *Heal right after
              that. Have Crono use *Luminaire, Frog use Frog Squash or *Heal
              when needed, and Lucca use *Flare. Repeat this a few times and
              you'll win this battle quite easily!

Golem Boss
    Found: Blackbird (12,000 B.C.)
    HP: 15000
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This creature shouldn't even be considered as a boss because of
              how insanely easy it is! This creature doesn't even attack, as
              it's afraid of heights. So all you have to do is pummel it with
              attacks over and over until you deplete all its HP and it runs
              away. You won't get experience/Tech Points if you're too slow,
              so you may want to use strong Single/Dual Techs to quickly kill
              it off.

Dalton Plus
    Found: Aboard the Epoch (12,000 B.C.)
    HP: 3500
    Item Charmed: Power Meal
    Strategy: This battle is another easy one against Dalton for the last
              time aboard the stolen Epoch. Each time you hit him, he'll
              counter by halving your HP with Iron Orb. Just use lots of
              strong Dual Techs while Frog or Robo heals the entire party
              until you win.

Lavos Spawn
    Found: Death Peak (2300 A.D.)
    HP: 4000
    Item Charmed: Elixir
    Strategy: Now, the battle against this creature can be either easy or
              hard. There are two spots you can target; its head or its
              shell. If you attack the shell, it'll counterattack by hitting
              your party with a strong attack. Target its head and use lots
              of Single or Dual Techs while healing when needed until you win
              this fight.

Retinite
    Found: Sunken Desert (600 A.D.)
    HP: (Core) 1000, (Upper Body) 5000, (Lower Body) 4800
    Item Charmed: (Core) Speed Tab
    Strategy: This battle will be a bit tough, so it's a must that you have
              Frog heal your party every other round or so. There are three
              targets for you to hit; the Core, the Upper Body, and the Lower
              Body. Target and destroy the Core first with a couple regular
              attacks. After that, have Frog use *Water 2 (Marle and Magus
              using *Ice 2 also helps) to lower the body's defense so you can
              attack it. Now, attack the top half first with all your strong
              Single and Dual Techs until its defense is built up again.
              Then, cast another Water or Ice spell to weaken it, and
              continue the attacking. After you beat the top half, repeat the
              pattern for the bottom half while healing every round or so
              until you defeat it.

Flea Plus
    Found: Ozzie's Fort (600 A.D.)
    HP: 2500
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This fight against Flea won't last very long, since you're much
              stronger at this point and Flea doesn't have as much HP as
              before. Use regular attacks to fight here, and don't worry
              about Flea's attacks since they cause little harm. Continue
              attacking until Flea runs away defeated.

Super Slash
    Found: Ozzie's Fort (600 A.D.)
    HP: 2500
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: As in the previous fight with Flea, just use regular attacks to
              get through this rather simple battle. Slash's attacks cause
              very little harm, so there's no need to heal throughout this
              battle either.

Great Ozzie/Flea Plus/Super Slash
    Found: Ozzie's Fort (600 A.D.)
    HP: (Ozzie) 6000, (Flea) 4000, (Slash) 4000
    Item Charmed: (Ozzie) OzziePants, (Flea) Flea Vest, (Slash) Slasher 2
    Strategy: Now this can be a pretty tough battle to get through,
              especially since each time you attack Ozzie or Flea, they
              counter with a delta attack of sorts. Also, if you have Ayla in
              your group, you can use her to Charm items from each of these
              guys (make sure to Charm the Slasher 2 from Super Slash; it's a
              great weapon for Crono). I recommend going after Slash first,
              so use your groups strongest Single/Dual Techs to attack, or
              just use regular attacks. Have Frog use *Heal to keep your
              group in shape if he's around. After you beat Slash, the delta
              attack will no longer take place when you attack the other two.
              Target either of the remaining bosses left in the same fashion
              that you fought with Slash. Continue the attacking/healing
              until you get through this entire battle.

Atropos XR
    Found: Geno Dome (2300 A.D.)
    HP: 6000
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: This 1-on-1 battle isn't really too tough, since Atropos'
              attacks don't cause much damage. However, Atropos will heal
              herself every couple rounds, so you're going to have to attack
              quickly and powerfully. Have Robo use his strongest Single
              Techs to do the most damage here. Be sure to heal with Heal
              Beam every so often, that way you don't die off in the middle
              of the fight. Continue attacking with strong Single Techs and
              you'll win this battle after a short while.

Mother Brain/Display (x3)
    Found: Geno Dome (2300 A.D.)
    HP: (Mother Brain) 5000, (Display) 1 each
    Item Charmed: (Mother Brain) Blue Mail, (Display) Elixir
    Strategy: This battle is a pretty tough one if you're not quick enough to
              defeat Mother Brain. There are three Displays, each one heals
              the boss for about 1000 HP each, so you'll want to hit each one
              with a regular attack to destroy them all. After that, Mother
              Brain will start to hit your group with increasingly tough
              attacks, and its defense rises as well. Use your group's best
              Single or Dual Techs (if you have Crono, *Luminaire helps alot
              here) to attack quickly. Heal with Robo's Heal Beam if
              necessary and continue the strong attacks until you win this
              fight.
Sun of Sun
    Found: Sun Palace (2300 A.D.)
    HP: 2100
    Item Charmed: (Son of Sun) Black Mail, (Fire Orb) Elixir
    Strategy: This battle is quite simple, really, once you get the hang of
              how to attack it. There are 5 fire orbs surrounding the main
              boss, and one of those is the target. Attack one at a time; if
              you hit the wrong one, you'll be hit by a pretty weak fire
              attack. Keep hitting each orb until you find the one that hurts
              the middle boss as well, then pound on that one with your best
              attacks. If needed, have someone heal in case the fire attacks
              get to be too much for you. When the Son of Sun shuffles the
              orbs, you'll have to find which one is the target again, so
              follow the previous procedure to find it. Continue that
              attacking pattern until you win.

Rust Tyrano
    Found: Giant's Claw (600 A.D.)
    HP: 25000
    Item Charmed: Red Mail
    Strategy: This battle is actually a pretty easy one, especially if your
              entire party has fire-resistant armor equipped (Ruby Armor, for
              example). Use all your strongest Single/Dual Techs to cause
              lots of damage here. Rust Tyrano will count down from 5 to 0,
              then when it hits zero, it'll hit your whole group with a fire
              attack. Heal your group at that point if the fire attack took
              too much damage, then continue the attacking until you win.

Yakra XIII
    Found: Guardia Castle (1000 A.D.)
    HP: 18000
    Item Charmed: White Mail
    Strategy: This battle against the descendant of Yakra is a bit tough if
              you aren't careful. If you have Frog or Robo in your group,
              they can really help by healing your entire party at once.
              Anyway, attack with your strongest Single/Dual Techs while
              healing every couple rounds or so. Yakra XIII will hit members
              of your group with a needle attack that can cause a couple
              hundred HP damage if you're not careful. Just keep your group's
              HP high and use strong attacks/Techs until you defeat this guy.
              Be careful since he'll use a final needle attack on your entire
              party to cause lots of damage, so make sure your group is in
              good shape for the entire battle.

Mega Mutant
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: (Top) 4600, (Bottom) 3850
    Item Charmed: (Top) Elixir, (Bottom) Vigil Hat
    Strategy: Well, this is a pretty quick and simple battle, so there's
              really no need to use any magic here. Focus on defeating the
              top half first, so have your group attack normally or use
              strong Single Techs to attack. This boss will cast status
              effects on your group at times, so be ready to heal after such
              attacks. After you beat the top half, repeat the same attacks
              on the bottom half until you win.

Giga Mutant
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: (Top) 5800, (Bottom) 4950
    Item Charmed: (Top) Wall Ring, (Bottom) Hit Ring
    Strategy: This second boss battle in the Black Omen isn't that really
              hard to beat, either. It's strong against regular attacks,
              that's why you should have a good line of magic-users in your
              group (Crono, Frog, Magus). Attack using your party's strongest
              Single Techs; Crono should use *Luminaire and Magus should use
              *Dark Matter, while Frog concentrates on healing. When your MP
              runs low, be sure to use Mid Ethers to keep the fight going if
              needed, since this boss drains some MP with each attack. Just
              keep using magic-based attacks and healing until you win.

TerraMutant
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: (Top) 7800, (Bottom) 20000
    Item Charmed: (Top) MuscleRing, (Bottom) Power Seal
    Strategy: The fight against the TerraMutant is basically the same as the
              Giga Mutant fight, but this one will last quite a bit longer.
              Regular attacks do very little damage, so your group should use
              their strongest Single Techs to attack the top half (or the
              entire creature if it's a multi-target Tech). The bottom half
              keeps healing the top half, but each time it heals the top
              half, that subtracts from its 20000 HP count. Which means that
              it can keep healing the top half until it runs out completely
              and dies off. Just use your strongest Single Techs to attack
              the top half as much as you can, so the healing from the bottom
              half doesn't interfere too much. After you defeat the top half,
              the bottom half is automatically destroyed, so the battle will
              be over at that point.

Lavos Spawn
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: 10000
    Item Charmed: (Head) Haste Helm, (Shell) Safe Helm
    Strategy: This fight against the Lavos Spawn is just like the battles
              against the weaker spawns on Death Peak. Do not attack the
              shell at all, or else you'll be hit by counterattacks. Focus
              all your attacks on the head of this creature, using single
              target Single and Dual Techs or regular attacks to cause lots
              of damage. If Ayla is in your party, you may want to have her
              Charm the Safe Helm from the shell since it's good for defense.
              Have Frog use *Heal (he should be in your party) to keep your
              group in good shape when needed, and continue the attacks to
              the head until you defeat it.

Zeal (1st Fight)
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: 12000
    Item Charmed: MegaElixir
    Strategy: This first fight against Queen Zeal isn't too tough to get
              through. She'll start off by reducing your party's HP to 1. She
              doesn't attack too much, but you should have Frog heal your
              group so they have at least 500 HP to survive on. Zeal will
              take some MP from members of your group at times, but that
              isn't too much to worry about. Anyway, use only regular attacks
              to fight this boss. She'll reduce your group to 1 HP again, so
              heal at that point. Continue attacking until you beat Zeal for
              this round.

M. Machine
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: 18000
    Item Charmed: MegaElixir
    Strategy: The fight against the powerful Mammon Machine is tough, but
              it's truly simple if you're well prepared for it. The first
              thing you should do is have Frog use *Heal to bring your group
              back in decent shape. When you use a regular attack, it raises
              the machine's defense power; when magic and Techs are used,
              attack power is raised. So, use regular attacks until the
              defense is too strong, then switch to strong Techs such as
              Crono's *Luminaire to cause lots of damage. After a while, this
              boss will release the stored energy from all your attacks to
              cause a considerable amount of damage to your party. Have Frog
              heal or use some Lapis items to get your group back into shape.
              Now, attack Mammon Machine again and a message will appear
              saying that it's standing still. That's when you should use all
              your strongest attacks since that's when you won't have to
              worry about its attack or defense power being boosted. When it
              starts modifying energy again, repeat the same battle plan as
              before. Just keep your group in good shape and follow the
              attack pattern from before, and you'll eventually win.

Zeal (2nd Fight)
    Found: Black Omen
    HP: (Head) 20000, (Left Arm) 28000, (Right Arm) 28000
    Item Charmed: (Head) MegaElixir, (L. Arm) PrismDress, (R. Arm) Prism Helm
    Strategy: This last battle against Queen Zeal is much tougher than your
              previous fight with her. There are 3 targets; the head and two
              arms. Whatever you do, do NOT attack the arms or you will be
              sorry! Direct all attacks to the head, so use lots of regular
              attacks or Techs that only hit one target. You should also keep
              your group's HP very high throughout the entire battle, so use
              a MegaElixir when needed to quickly heal your whole group's
              HP/MP. Both arms will use elemental magic to attack your party,
              so be prepared to heal if your HP goes too low. Also, Zeal will
              reduce your party's HP to 1 at some point, so be ready to use a
              MegaElixir to bounce back from that hit. Anyway, keep attacking
              the head with your strongest Techs and regular attacks while
              healing every few rounds or so, and you'll be able to defeat
              Zeal once and for all.

Lavos
    Found: Day of Lavos (1999 A.D.)
    HP: N/A
    Item Charmed: N/A
    Strategy: The battle against Lavos, the final boss of the game, is a long
              and hard one to pull through. At the start of the fight, Lavos
              goes into "attack mode" and you'll catch a glimpse of what past
              boss it's going to imitate. Here's a list of each form it
              takes, and the strategy/party to use for each one (you can heal
              or change your party between forms):

    Dragon Tank: For this first form, a strong line of attackers would help
                 beat it quickly. Just attack and defeat the two creatures on
                 either side, then attack Lavos' head until you beat it.

    Guardian/Bits: Here, a group with Crono and/or Magus would help kill this
                   form easily. Have Crono use *Luminaire, or Magus use *Dark
                   Matter to cause lots of damage to all 3 parts, defeating
                   them all quickly.

    Heckran: A strong group of magic-users really helps here, since regular
             attacks do not affect this form. Have your party use strong
             magic spells to quickly defeat this form.

    Zombor: For this particular form, you should have a group with strong
            attacking power as always. Defeat the creature in front of Lavos
            first, then attack Lavos' head with strong attacks to beat it.

    Masa & Mune: You should definitely have Crono in your party for this part
                 of the battle. Use regular attacks to cause damage, then
                 when a message shows up saying that it's storing energy,
                 have Crono use his Slash Tech to release the energy,
                 preventing the attack on your group. Then, continue
                 attacking like before until you beat it.

    Nizbel: Again, you should have Crono and/or Magus in your party for this
            round. Have them use *Lightning to lower its defense, then use
            regular attacks to cause more damage. If its defense goes back up
            before you beat it, use *Lightning again to lower the defense,
            then continue the attacking to defeat it.

    Magus: For this part of the fight, make sure Frog is in your group and
           has the Masamune sword equipped. Have Frog attack with the
           Masamune, which lowers this form's defense, making your attacks
           hit harder. Whenever you attack, it'll change its barrier and hit
           you with an elemental attack. The type of magic it uses to hit you
           is the one it's vulnerable to, so use the same type of magic to
           cause more damage. When the barrier is changed, repeat with the
           new type of magic. Have Frog heal when needed, and keep him
           attacking to weaken this form's defense. When a message shows up
           saying Lavos casts a spell, use any type of attacks to quickly
           defeat it.

    BlackTyrano/Azala: Before fighting this form, you may want to equip fire-
                       resistant armor so you don't get too hurt from the
                       fiery attacks. Direct all your attacks to the small
                       creature to the left first, since you can't really
                       hurt Lavos' head until you beat the small enemy. Use
                       magic to fight and defeat the small creature, then
                       it's time for attacking the main part of this form.
                       Your attacks still won't affect Lavos too much, so
                       wait until the defense is lowered, then use your
                       strongest attacks to fight it. It'll then start
                       counting down to 0; when it reaches zero, it'll use a
                       fire attack on your entire group, so be ready for
                       that. Keep using your strongest moves and maybe you
                       can beat it before it counts all the way down.

    Giga Gaia: Just like the original Giga Gaia battle, attack the left
               creature and beat it; doing so prevents both creatures (arms)
               from performing a double attack on your group. After you beat
               the left side, concentrate on attacking the head in the middle
               with your strongest attacks/Techs. The right side will try to
               heal the head, but it's not too much to worry about, so keep
               on attacking the head and you'll eventually beat it.

    Lavos (Normal): Make sure you have Crono or Magus, Frog, and Ayla in your
                    party here. Use your strongest attacks/Techs, especially
                    Crono's *Luminaire, to cause lots of damage. Lavos will
                    use strong attacks to hit your entire party, so have Frog
                    heal if your party's HP gets too low. Continue the
                    attacking until you beat the head of Lavos.

Your group will then enter the giant shell of Lavos. Rest/save at the save 
point (there may also be a Gate nearby leading to the End of Time if you got 
here by playing through the Black Omen). If you need more supplies, use the 
Gate and head to another area with the Epoch to buy some healing items. If 
you take the Gate, use the bucket at the End of Time to return to the inside 
of the shell. Inside, go north through this area. Before the end, make sure 
you have the party you want to use for the final battle (mine was Crono, 
Frog, and Magus). Then, continue into the next area and you'll enter battle 
against Lavos' next form.

    Lavos (Inside Shell): This is the second to last form of Lavos to fight,
                          and it's pretty tough too. You can't really hurt
                          the head from the start, so concentrate on beating
                          both arms first. Use your group's strongest multi
                          target Techs, such as *Luminaire and *DarkMatter.
                          After you defeat the arms, you can then cause more
                          damage by hitting the head with attacks. It'll try
                          to inflict status effects on your party, so be
                          ready to heal if that happens. Use lots of strong
                          attacks/Techs to hit the head, and use a MegaElixir
                          if your party's HP and MP gets too low. Be careful
                          when Lavos uses a blazing attack to cause lots of
                          damage, and be ready to quickly heal and continue
                          the fighting. Just keep on using the strongest
                          Techs your party has and keep your HP/MP up, and
                          you'll defeat this creature in no time.

After you beat Lavos again, you'll view its true form and find out the true 
purpose of people on the planet. You'll then enter the final battle against 
the Lavos Core.

    Lavos Core: This is the absolute final battle against Lavos in this game.
                There are 3 parts here: the left Bit, the middle Bit, and the
                right Bit. You cannot hurt the right side until the middle
                Bit is defeated, since the right Bit is seemingly the core of
                Lavos. Anyway, use your party's strongest Single Techs to
                cause lots of damage to the middle Bit. The left Bit absorbs
                magic-based Techs, so use physical attacks/Techs to hurt it.
                After you defeat either the left or middle Bits, the right
                Bit will lower its defense and try to revive the destroyed
                Bit(s). That's your chance to pummel the right Bit with all
                your strong attacks/Techs. When all 3 Bits are back again,
                they'll perform the ultimate attack, causing massive damage
                to your party, so be ready to use Revives and a MegaElixir to
                get back in shape. After that, go back to the same attack
                pattern as before, where you must defeat the left/middle
                Bits. Be careful if you defeat the middle Bit and the two
                others are still there, since they'll retaliate with a cross
                hit each time you attack them. When the right Bit's defense
                is lowered again, attack it with strong hits like before.
                Keep your party in great shape and continue the above
                strategies until you defeat the right Bit and Lavos
                altogether, thus beating the game!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  9. Weapons  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Crono's Weapons
---------------

Aeon Blade
    Attack: +70

AlloyBlade
    Attack: +110

Bolt Sword
    Attack: +25

Demon Edge
    Attack: +90
    Note: 1.5x damage caused on magic enemies

Flint Edge
    Attack: +40

Iron Blade
    Attack: +7

Kali Blade
    Attack: +150

Lode Sword
    Attack: +20

Mop
    Attack: +1

Rainbow
    Attack: +220
    Note: 70% chance of causing a critical hit with this weapon

Red Katana
    Attack: +30
    Note: Magic +2

Shiva Edge
    Attack: +170
    Note: Causes 4x damage if a critical hit is made

Slasher
    Attack: +43
    Note: Speed +2

Slasher 2
    Attack: +155

Star Sword
    Attack: +125

SteelSaber
    Attack: +15

Swallow
    Attack: +145
    Note: Speed +3

VedicBlade
    Attack: +135

Wood Sword
    Attack: +3


Marle's Weapons
---------------

Bronze Bow
    Attack: +3

CometArrow
    Attack: +80

Dream Bow
    Attack: +60

Iron Bow
    Attack: +15

Lode Bow
    Attack: +20

Robin Bow
    Attack: +25

Sage Bow
    Attack: +40

Siren
    Attack: +140
    Note: Can randomly cause Stop status on an enemy

SonicArrow
    Attack: +100
    Note: Can randomly cause Slow status on an enemy

Valkerye
    Attack: +180


Lucca's Weapons
---------------

Auto Gun
    Attack: +15

Dart Gun
    Attack: +7

Dream Gun
    Attack: +60

Megablast
    Attack: +80

Plasma Gun
    Attack: +25

Ruby Gun
    Attack: +40

Shock Wave
    Attack: +110
    Note: Can randomly cause Chaos status on an enemy

WonderShot
    Attack: +250
    Note: The amount of damage caused can vary


Frog's Weapons
--------------

BraveSword
    Attack: +135

BronzeEdge
    Attack: +6

FlashBlade
    Attack: +90

Iron Sword
    Attack: +10

Masamune
    Attack: +75

Masamune (After upgrade)
    Attack: +200
    Note: 2x damage caused on magic enemies

Pearl Edge
    Attack: +105
    Note: 1.5x damage caused on magic enemies

Rune Blade
    Attack: +120
    Note: Magic +4


Robo's Weapons
--------------

Big Hand
    Attack: +105

Crisis Arm
    Attack: +1
    Note: The attack changes when Robo has less than 10 HP remaining

DoomFinger
    Attack: +50

Giga Arm
    Attack: +135

Hammer Arm
    Attack: +25

Kaiser Arm
    Attack: +120

Magma Hand
    Attack: +70

MegatonArm
    Attack: +90

Stone Arm
    Attack: +40

Terra Arm
    Attack: +150

Tin Arm
    Attack: +20


Magus's Weapons
---------------

DarkScythe
    Attack: +120

DoomSickle
    Attack: +160
    Note: Attack power rises when an ally falls

Hurricane
    Attack: +135

StarScythe
    Attack: +150

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  10. Armor -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Aeon Suit
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +75

Black Mail
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +70
    Note: Absorbs Shadow attacks

Black Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +45
    Note: Absorbs 50% of Shadow attacks

Blue Mail
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +70
    Note: Absorbs Water attacks

Blue Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +45
    Note: Absorbs 50% of Water attacks

BronzeMail
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +16

Dark Mail
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +45
    Note: Magic Defense +5

Flash Mail
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +64

Gloom Cape
    Can Equip: Magus
    Defense: +84

Gold Suit
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +39

Hide Tunic
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +5

Iron Suit
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +25

Karate Gi
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +10

Lode Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +71

Lumin Robe
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Defense: +63
    Note: Magic Defense +5

MaidenSuit
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Defense: +18

Meso Mail
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +52

Mist Robe
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Defense: +54

Moon Armor
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +85
    Note: Magic Defense +10

Nova Armor
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +82
    Note: Protects wearer from any status effects

PrismDress
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Defense: +99
    Note: Cuts magic attacks by 1/3

RavenArmor
    Can Equip: Magus
    Defense: +76

Red Mail
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +70
    Note: Absorbs Fire attacks

Red Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +45
    Note: Absorbs 50% of Fire attacks

Ruby Armor
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +78
    Note: Cuts damage from Fire attacks by 80%

Ruby Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +45
    Note: Cuts damage from Fire attacks by 50%

Taban Suit
    Can Equip: Lucca
    Defense: +79
    Note: Speed +3, protection against Fire attacks increases

Taban Vest
    Can Equip: Lucca
    Defense: +33
    Note: Speed +2, protection against Fire attacks increases

Titan Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +32

White Mail
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +70
    Note: Absorbs Lightning attacks

White Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +45
    Note: Absorbs 50% of Lightning attacks

ZodiacCape
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Defense: +80
    Note: Magic Defense +10

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  11. Headgear  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Aeon Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +33

Beret
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Defense: +17

BronzeHelm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +8

CeraTopper
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +23

Doom Helm
    Can Equip: Magus
    Defense: +29

Gloom Helm
    Can Equip: Magus
    Defense: +42
    Note: Protects wearer from any status effects

Glow Helm
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +25

Gold Helm
    Can Equip: Crono, Frog, Robo, Magus
    Defense: +18

Haste Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +35
    Note: 50% less wait between wearer's turns in battle

Hide Cap
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +3

Iron Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +14

Lode Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +29

Memory Cap
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +30
    Note: Prevents the wearer from being hit by the Lock status effect

Mermaid Cap
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +35
    Note: Cuts damage from Water attacks by 50%

OzziePants
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +45
    Note: This headgear is cursed, so whoever equips it will become confused
          in battle

Prism Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +40
    Note: Defense +9, locks status

R'Bow Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +35
    Note: Cuts damage from Lightning attacks by 50%

Rock Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +20

Safe Helm
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +38
    Note: Cuts damage from physical attacks by 1/3

Sight Cap
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +30
    Note: Prevents the wearer from being hit by the Chaos status effect

Taban Helm
    Can Equip: Lucca
    Defense: +24
    Note: Magic Defense +10

Time Hat
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +30
    Note: Prevents the wearer from being hit by Stop and Slow status effects

Vigil Hat
    Can Equip: All
    Defense: +36
    Note: Prevents the wearer from any status effects

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  12. Accessories -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Amulet
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Protects wearer from any status effects

Bandana
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Speed +1

Berserker
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Causes wearer to automatically attack in battle, which you
             cannot control. Hit and Defense stats rise as well.

Black Rock
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Magus
    Effects: Allows the "DarkEternal" Triple Tech to be cast if Marle, Lucca,
             and Magus are in your party and this accessory is equipped on
             one of those characters. Also, they must know the necessary
             Single Techs in order to perform the Triple Tech.

Blue Rock
    Can Equip: Lucca, Robo, Magus
    Effects: Allows the "OmegaFlare" Triple Tech to be cast if Lucca, Robo,
             and Magus are in your party and this accessory is equipped on
             one of those characters. Also, they must know the necessary
             Single Techs in order to perform the Triple Tech.

Charm Top
    Can Equip: Ayla
    Effects: Increases the effectiveness of Ayla's Charm Tech.

Dash Ring
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Speed +3

Defender
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Vigor +2

Flea Vest
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Magic Defense +12

FrenzyBand
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: 80% chance of counterattacking when attacked by an enemy

Gold Erng
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Maximum HP increases by 50%

Gold Rock
    Can Equip: Frog
    Effects: Allows the "Grand Dream" Triple Tech to be cast if Frog, Marle,
             and Robo are in your party and this accessory is equipped on
             Frog. Also, they must know the necessary Single Techs in order
             to perform the Triple Tech.

Gold Stud
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Cuts down the amount of MP needed for techs/spells by 75%

Hero Medal
    Can Equip: Frog
    Effects: Increases the chances of a critical hit with the Masamune.

Hit Ring
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Strike +10

Magic Ring
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Magic +6

Magic Seal
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Magic Defense +5

MagicScarf
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Magic +2

MuscleRing
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Vigor +6

PowerGlove
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Power +2

Power Ring
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Power +6

PowerScarf
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Power +4

PrismSpecs
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Raises wearer's attack power to the maximum

Rage Band
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: 50% chance of counterattacking when attacked by an enemy

Ribbon
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Strike +2

SightScope
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Can view enemy HP in battle (doesn't work on bosses)

SilverErng
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Maximum HP increases by 25%

SilverRock
    Can Equip: Frog, Robo, Ayla
    Effects: Allows the "Spin Strike" Triple Tech to be cast if Frog, Robo,
             and Ayla are in your party and this accessory is equipped on one
             of those characters. Also, they must know the necessary Single
             Techs in order to perform the Triple Tech.

SilverStud
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Cuts down the amount of MP needed for techs/spells by 50%

Speed Belt
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Speed +2

Sun Shades
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Raises the wearer's attack power

Third Eye
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: 2x Evade

Wall Ring
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Magic Defense +10

Wallet
    Can Equip: All
    Effects: Turns any experience points gained into gold (money)

White Rock
    Can Equip: Marle, Lucca, Ayla
    Effects: Allows the "Poyozo Dance" Triple Tech to be cast if Marle,
             Lucca, and Ayla are in your party and this accessory is equipped
             on one of those characters. Also, they must know the necessary
             Single Techs in order to perform the Triple Tech.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  13. Items -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Barrier: Cuts the amount of damage taken by magic attacks by 1/3.

Ether: Restores 10 MP.

Elixir: Restores all HP and MP.

Full Ether: Restores 60 MP.

Full Tonic: Restores 500 HP.

Heal: Recovers a character's bad status.

HyperEther: Restores all MP.

Lapis: Recovers 200 HP for all allies in your current party.

Magic Tab: Permanently increases a character's Magic by 1.

MegaElixir: Restores all allies' HP and MP.

Mid Ether: Restores 30 MP.

Mid Tonic: Restores 200 HP.

Power Meal: Recovers Lock status on a character.

Power Tab: Permanently increases a character's Power by 1.

Race Log: Use this to record your top times in the Jet Bike Racing mini-game.

Revive: Revives a fallen character.

Shelter: Restores party's HP/MP. Can only use at save points, though.

Shield: Cuts the amount of damage taken by physical attacks by 1/3.

Speed Tab: Permanently increases a character's Speed by 1.

Tonic: Restores 50 HP.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  14. Techniques  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

============
Single Techs
============

Crono
-----

Cyclone
    MP: 2
    Description: Crono spins his sword around, hitting the targeted enemy and
                 anything nearby.

Slash
    MP: 2
    Description: Crono slashes at the targeted enemy with his sword.

*Lightning
    MP: 2
    Description: Hit an enemy with a lightning attack.

Spincut
    MP: 4
    Description: Crono spins and jumps, then comes down on the enemy with a
                 strong sword slice.

*Lightning2
    MP: 8
    Description: Crono hits all the enemies with a lightning attack.

*Life
    MP: 10
    Description: Revives a fallen ally.

Confuse
    MP: 12
    Description: Crono will spin around the enemy and attack them 4 times,
                 while trying to confuse them. The confusion effect doesn't
                 always work, however.

*Luminaire
    MP: 20
    Description: Crono performs an extremely powerful supernova attack on the
                 enemies as his ultimate Tech.


Lucca
-----

Flame Toss
    MP: 1
    Description: Lucca shoots a line of fire at a line of enemies in the way.

Hypno Wave
    MP: 1
    Description: Lucca will try to make the nearby enemies fall asleep. This
                 doesn't always work on the enemies, though.

*Fire
    MP: 2
    Description: Hit an enemy with a fire attack.

Napalm
    MP: 4
    Description: Lucca throws a napalm, damaging any enemies surrounding the
                 blast.

*Protect
    MP: 6
    Description: Increases the defense power of an ally in battle.

*Fire 2
    MP: 8
    Description: Lucca hits all the enemies with a fire attack.

Mega Bomb
    MP: 15
    Description: Lucca throws a bomb at the enemy, and the blast damages any
                 surrounding enemies with a strong fiery attack.

*Flare
    MP: 20
    Description: Lucca hits all the enemies with her strongest fire attack.


Frog
----

Slurp
    MP: 1
    Description: Recovers some of an ally's HP. Can be used outside of
                 battle.

Slurp Cut
    MP: 2
    Description: Frog uses its tongue to pull an enemy towards it, then it'll
                 stab it with its sword.

*Water
    MP: 2
    Description: Hit the enemy with a water attack.

*Heal
    MP: 2
    Description: Recovers a larger amount of all allies' HP. Can be used
                 outside of battle.

Leap Slash
    MP: 4
    Description: Frog jumps and slashes the targeted enemy for a strong hit.

*Water 2
    MP: 8
    Description: Frog hits all the enemies with a water attack.

*Cure 2
    MP: 5
    Description: Recovers all of an ally's HP. Can be used outside of battle.

Frog Squash
    MP: 15
    Description: A giant frog is summoned to crush all the enemies. The less
                 HP Frog has, the more damage this attack causes.


Marle
-----

Aura
    MP: 1
    Description: Recovers some of an ally's HP. Can be used outside of
                 battle.

Provoke
    MP: 1
    Description: Marle attempts to confuse the enemy (doesn't work in
                 confusing the enemy every time, though).

*Ice
    MP: 2
    Description: Marle hits a single enemy with an ice attack.

*Cure
    MP: 2
    Description: Recovers a larger amount of an ally's HP. Can be used
                 outside of battle.

*Haste
    MP: 6
    Description: Cuts the amount of time a character has to wait between
                 turns by 1/2.

*Ice 2
    MP: 8
    Description: Marle hits all the enemies with a strong ice attack.

*Cure 2
    MP: 5
    Description: Recovers all of an ally's HP. Can be used outside of battle.

*Life 2
    MP: 15
    Description: Revives a fallen ally in battle, and fully recovers their
                 HP.


Robo
----

RocketPunch
    MP: 1
    Description: Robo hits the enemy with a powerful punch.

Cure Beam
    MP: 2
    Description: Recovers some of an ally's HP. Can be used outside of
                 battle.

Laser Spin
    MP: 3
    Description: Robo hits all the enemies with a strong laser spin attack.

Robo Tackle
    MP: 4
    Description: Robo tackles the enemy, causing a good amount of damage.

Heal Beam
    MP: 3
    Description: Recovers some of all allies' HP. Can be used outside of
                 battle.

Uzzi Punch
    MP: 12
    Description: Robo hits the enemy with a barrage of punches, causing lots
                 of damage.

Area Bomb
    MP: 14
    Description: Robo causes an explosion, damaging any enemies closeby.

Shock
    MP: 17
    Description: Robo electrically shocks all the enemies onscreen, causing
                 a large amount of damage to all.


Ayla
----

Kiss
    MP: 1
    Description: Recovers some of an ally's HP, along with any status
                 ailments. Can be used outside of battle.

Rollo Kick
    MP: 2
    Description: Ayla jump kicks the enemy and hits them several times in a
                 row, causing a good amount of damage.

Cat Attack
    MP: 3
    Description: Ayla scratches at the enemy savagely, causing lots of
                 damage.

Rock Throw
    MP: 4
    Description: Ayla runs and picks up an enemy, then tosses them in the air
                 really high. The enemy then falls, causing lots of damage.

Charm
    MP: 4
    Description: Ayla tries to charm the enemy into giving up an item you
                 wouldn't get from it otherwise. It also works against
                 bosses.

Tail Spin
    MP: 10
    Description: Ayla spins around really fast, hitting all enemies in a
                 circle with her attack.

Triple Kick
    MP: 20
    Description: Ayla hits the enemy with a powerful kick three times in a
                 row, causing a good amount of damage.


Magus
-----

*Lightning 2
    MP: 8
    Description: Magus hits all the enemies with a strong lightning attack.

*Ice 2
    MP: 8
    Description: Magus hits all the enemies with a strong ice attack.

*Fire 2
    MP: 8
    Description: Magus hits all the enemies with a strong fire attack.

*Dark Bomb
    MP: 8
    Description: Magus hits any surrounding enemies with a shadow bomb
                 attack.

*Magic Wall
    MP: 8
    Description: Increases the magic defense of an ally in battle.

*Dark Mist
    MP: 10
    Description: Magus hits all enemies with a giant mist cloud, causing lots
                 of Shadow damage.

*Black Hole
    MP: 15
    Description: A black hole sucks in the targeted enemies, killing them
                 instantly.

*DarkMatter
    MP: 20
    Description: All the enemies are hit by a strong dark magic attack.


==========
Dual Techs
==========

Crono + Lucca
-------------

Flame Whirl
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Lucca) Flame Toss
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Lucca), 1
    Description: A combination of Crono's spinning sword attack with a little
                 bit of fire mixed in for a strong combo.

Fire Sword
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Lucca) *Fire
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Lucca) 2
    Description: Lucca powers up Crono's sword with fire, then Crono comes
                 down on the enemy for a powerful attack.

FireSword 2
    Techs Required: (Crono) Confuse, (Lucca) *Fire2
    MP: (Crono) 12, (Lucca) 8
    Description: This is a much stronger version than the regular Fire Sword
                 Dual Tech.


Crono + Frog
------------

X-Strike
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Frog) Slurp Cut
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Frog) 2
    Description: Crono and Frog dash towards an enemy and cut through them in
                 an X formation.

SwordStream
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Frog) *Water
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Frog) 2
    Description: Frog will make a water pillar, and Crono will jump through
                 to hit the enemy with a strong water sword attack.

Spire
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning2, (Frog) Leap Slash
    MP: (Crono) 8, (Frog) 4
    Description: Crono uses lightning to attack while Frog jumps in and stabs
                 the enemy with his sword.


Crono + Marle
-------------

Aura Whirl
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Marle) Aura
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Marle) 1
    Description: Recovers all allies' HP by a little bit. Can not be used
                 outside of battle, however.

Ice Sword
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Marle) *Ice
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Marle) 2
    Description: Marle powers up Crono's sword with ice, then Crono comes
                 down on the enemy for a powerful attack.

Ice Sword 2
    Techs Required: (Crono) Confuse, (Marle) *Ice 2
    MP: (Crono) 12, (Marle) 8
    Description: This is a much stronger version than the regular Ice Sword
                 Dual Tech.


Crono + Robo
------------

Rocket Roll
    Techs Required: (Crono) Slash, (Robo) Laser Spin
    MP: (Crono) 3, (Robo) 4
    Description: Robo and Crono go to the center of the targeted group and
                 Robo uses a large laser attack while Crono spins aruond in
                 the middle with his sword.

Max Cyclone
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Robo) Laser Spin
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Robo) 3
    Description: Robo spins Crono around, hitting any surrounding enemies
                 with a strong spinning sword attack.

Super Volt
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning 2, (Robo) Shock
    MP: (Crono) 8, (Robo) 17
    Description: Crono and Robo perform a powerful lightning attack to hit
                 all the enemies.


Crono + Ayla
------------

Drill Kick
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Ayla) Rollo Kick
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Ayla) 2
    Description: Crono spins Ayla around, then she spins like a drill and
                 kicks the targeted enemy.

Volt Bite
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning, (Ayla) Cat Attack
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Ayla) 3
    Description: Crono will charge Ayla up with lightning, and she'll bite
                 the enemy with an electrical charge.

Falcon Hit
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Ayla) Rock Throw
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Ayla) 4
    Description: Ayla will throw Crono in the air, and he'll come flying in,
                 hitting all the enemies in the row with a strong attack.


Marle + Lucca
-------------

Antipode
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice, (Lucca) *Fire
    MP: (Marle) 2, (Lucca) 2
    Description: Marle and Lucca hit the enemies with a strong combination of
                 an ice and fire attack.

Antipode 2
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice 2, (Lucca) *Fire 2
    MP: (Marle) 8, (Lucca) 8
    Description: This is a stronger version of the regular Antipode Dual
                 Tech.

Antipode 3
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice 2, (Lucca) *Flare
    MP: (Marle) 8, (Lucca) 20
    Description: This is the final and strongest of the Antipode Dual Techs,
                 with a strong ice/fire combination attacking all the
                 enemies.


Marle + Robo
------------

Aura Beam
    Techs Required: (Marle) Aura, (Robo) Cure Beam
    MP: (Marle) 1, (Robo) 2
    Description: Marle and Robo recover all allies' HP by about 100 HP.
                 Cannot be used outside of battle.

Ice Tackle
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice, (Robo) Robo Tackle
    MP: (Marle) 4, (Robo) 2
    Description: Marle will shoot ice at Robo, and he'll tackle the enemies
                 with a strong icy edge.

Cure Touch
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Cure 2, (Robo) Heal Beam
    MP: (Marle) 5, (Robo) 3
    Description: Marle and Robo fully recover all allies' HP. Cannot be used
                 outside of battle.


Marle + Frog
------------

Ice Water
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice, (Frog) *Water
    MP: (Marle) 2, (Frog) 2
    Description: Marle and Frog will combine their ice and water powers to
                 hit all the enemies with a strong attack.

Glacier
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice 2, (Frog) *Water
    MP: (Marle) 8, (Frog) 8
    Description: Marle and Frog power up their abilities to make 3 giant ice
                 blocks fall on the enemy.

Double Cure
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Cure 2, (Frog) *Cure 2
    MP: (Marle) 5, (Frog) 5
    Description: Marle and Frog combine their curing powers and recover a
                 large amount of all allies' HP, as well as any status
                 effects.


Marle + Ayla
------------

Twin Charm
    Techs Required: (Marle) Provoke, (Ayla) Charm
    MP: (Marle) 1, (Ayla) 4
    Description: Marle and Ayla attempt to charm the enemy to steal an item
                 from it that you wouldn't get otherwise. It increases the
                 chances that you get something when you use this Dual Tech.

Ice Toss
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice, (Ayla) Rock Throw
    MP: (Marle) 2, (Ayla) 4
    Description: Marle powers Ayla up with ice, then Ayla throws some small
                 ice blocks at the enemies, hitting any surrounding enemies.

Cube Toss
    Techs Required: (Marle) *Ice 2, (Ayla) Rock Throw
    MP: (Marle) 8, (Ayla) 4
    Description: Marle powers up Ayla with ice, then Ayla creates and drops a
                 giant ice block on the enemies.


Lucca + Robo
------------

Fire Punch
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Fire, (Robo) Rocket Punch
    MP: (Lucca) 2, (Robo) 1
    Description: Lucca uses her fire spell and Robo punches the surrounding
                 enemies with a fiery blast.
Fire Tackle
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Fire 2, (Robo) Robo Tackle
    MP: (Lucca) 8, (Robo) 4
    Description: Lucca powers up Robo with fire, then Robo hits the enemy
                 with a powerful tackle attack.

Double Bomb
    Techs Required: (Lucca) Mega Bomb, (Robo) Area Bomb
    MP: (Lucca) 15, (Robo) 14
    Description: Lucca and Robo and combine their bomb attacks to cause LOTS
                 of damage to an enemy close to Robo.


Lucca + Ayla
------------

Flame Kick
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Fire, (Ayla) Rollo Kick
    MP: (Lucca) 2, (Ayla) 2
    Description: Lucca powers up Ayla with fire, then Ayla kicks the enemy
                 with a fiery blast.

Fire Whirl
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Fire 2, (Ayla) Tail Spin
    MP: (Lucca) 8, (Ayla) 10
    Description: Ayla spins around like a tornado, then Lucca shoots fire at
                 her, making the fire hit all the enemies for a strong fire
                 attack.

Blaze Kick
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Fire 2, (Ayla) Triple Kick
    MP: (Lucca) 8, (Ayla) 20
    Description: Lucca powers up Ayla with fire, then Ayla kicks the enemy
                 with an extremely powerful fiery kick attack.


Lucca + Frog
------------

Red Pin
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Fire, (Frog) Leap Slash
    MP: (Lucca) 2, (Frog) 4
    Description: Lucca shoots fire at the enemy and Frog jumps and stabs the
                 enemy with his sword.

Line Bomb
    Techs Required: (Lucca) Mega Bomb, (Frog) Leap Slash
    MP: (Lucca) 15, (Frog) 4
    Description: Frog will jump up with his sword drawn, and Lucca will throw
                 a line of bombs down. Frog will cut through the bombs and
                 hit all the enemies in the line.
Frog Flare
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Flare, (Frog) Frog Squash
    MP: (Lucca) 20, (Frog) 15
    Description: Frog performs his Frog Squash Tech, and Lucca powers it up
                 with fire to make it a strong fiery attack.


Robo + Ayla
-----------

Spin Kick
    Techs Required: (Robo) Robo Tackle, (Ayla) Rollo Kick
    MP: (Robo) 4, (Ayla) 2
    Description: Robo picks up Ayla and throws her towards the enemy, and she
                 spin kicks the enemy to cause lots of damage.

Boogie
    Techs Required: (Robo) Robo Tackle, (Ayla) Charm
    MP: (Robo) 4, (Ayla) 4
    Description: Robo and Ayla charm the enemies and hit them with a laser to
                 completely stop them for a few rounds of battle.

Beast Toss
    Techs Required: (Robo) Uzzi Punch, (Ayla) Rock Throw
    MP: (Robo) 12, (Ayla) 4
    Description: Robo and Ayla will throw the enemy back and forth, then
                 straight up into the air. The enemy will then drop, taking
                 lots of damage.


Robo + Frog
-----------

Blade Toss
    Techs Required: (Robo) Laser Spin, (Frog) Slurp Cut
    MP: (Robo) 3, (Frog) 2
    Description: Robo spins and tosses Frog in a straight line, slashing all
                 enemies in the way.

Bubble Snap
    Techs Required: (Robo) Robo Tackle, (Frog) *Water
    MP: (Robo) 4, (Frog) 2
    Description: Frog encases Robo within a bubble, which floats up to the
                 enemy. When the bubble bursts, the enemy is slashed for
                 massive damage.

Cure Wave
    Techs Required: (Robo) Heal Beam, (Frog) *Cure 2
    MP: (Robo) 3, (Frog) 5
    Description: Fully restores all allies' HP in battle.


Frog + Ayla
-----------

Slurp Kiss
    Techs Required: (Frog) Slurp, (Ayla) Kiss
    MP: (Frog) 1, (Ayla) 1
    Description: Ayla and Frog combine their healing powers to recover a good
                 amount of all allies' HP, as well as any status effects.
                 This cannot be used outside of battle, though.
Bubble Hit
    Techs Required: (Frog) Water, (Ayla) Rollo Kick
    MP: (Frog) 2, (Ayla) 2
    Description: Frog encases Ayla in a bubble and she floats over the enemy,
                 then she drops onto the enemy, causing lots of damage.

Drop Kick
    Techs Required: (Frog) Leap Slash, (Ayla) Triple Kick
    MP: (Frog) 4, (Ayla) 20
    Description: Ayla and Frog will jump in the air, and Ayla will kick the
                 enemy, while Frog comes down and stabs the enemy, causing
                 lots of damage.


============
Triple Techs
============

Crono + Marle + Lucca
---------------------

Delta Force
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning2, (Marle) *Ice 2, (Lucca) *Fire 2
    MP: (Crono) 8, (Marle) 8, (Lucca) 8
    Description: Crono, Marle, and Lucca combine their elements to perform a
                 massive attack on all the enemies.


Crono + Marle + Frog
--------------------

Arc Impulse
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Marle) *Ice 2, (Frog) Leap Slash
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Marle) 8, (Frog) 4
    Description: Marle powers up Crono with ice, and he jumps in the air.
                 Crono and Frog then cross-slash the enemy for massive
                 amounts of damage.


Crono + Marle + Robo
--------------------

Lifeline
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning, (Marle) *Life 2, (Robo) Heal Beam
    MP: (Crono) 15, (Marle) 15, (Robo) 3
    Description: Crono, Marle, and Robo combine their healing powers to
                 revive the entire party, as well as restore alot of HP.


Crono + Marle + Ayla
--------------------

Final Kick
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning 2, (Marle) *Ice 2, (Ayla) Triple Kick
    MP: (Crono) 8, (Marle) 8, (Ayla) 20
    Description: Crono and Marle combine their ice and lightning powers to
                 make an energy ball, then Ayla kicks through the ball,
                 hitting the enemy multiple times for massive damage.


Crono + Lucca + Frog
--------------------

Delta Storm
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning2, (Lucca) *Fire 2, (Frog) *Water 2
    MP: (Crono) 8, (Lucca) 8, (Frog) 8
    Description: Crono, Lucca, and Frog combine their elements to perform a
                 massive attack on all the enemies.


Crono + Lucca + Robo
--------------------

Fire Zone
    Techs Required: (Crono) Spincut, (Lucca) *Fire 2, (Robo) Laser Spin
    MP: (Crono) 4, (Lucca) 8, (Robo) 3
    Description: Robo spins Crono around really fast, then Lucca powers Crono
                 up with fire. Crono then slices the enemy with a fiery
                 attack.


Crono + Lucca + Ayla
--------------------

GatlingKick
    Techs Required: (Crono) *Lightning 2, (Lucca) *Fire 2, (Ayla) Triple Kick
    MP: (Crono) 8, (Lucca) 8, (Ayla) 20
    Description: Crono and Lucca combine their powers to create an energy
                 ball, which is thrown at the enemy. Ayla kicks through it
                 and hits the enemy causing lots of damage.


Crono + Frog + Robo
-------------------

Triple Raid
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Frog) Slurp Cut, (Robo) Robo Tackle
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Frog) 2, (Robo) 4
    Description: Crono, Frog, and Robo all attack the enemy at once in a
                 delta attack, causing lots of damage.


Crono + Frog + Ayla
-------------------

3D Attack
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Frog) Slurp Cut, (Ayla) Triple Kick
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Frog) 2, (Ayla) 20
    Description: Frog and Crono will cross-slash the enemy, and Ayla will
                 come down hard on the enemy, causing extreme amounts of
                 damage.


Crono + Robo + Ayla
-------------------

Twister
    Techs Required: (Crono) Cyclone, (Robo) Laser Spin, (Ayla) Tail Spin
    MP: (Crono) 2, (Robo) 3, (Ayla) 10
    Description: Crono, Robo, and Ayla stand on top of each other and spin
                 around the area, hitting all enemies with a strong attack.


Marle + Lucca + Ayla
--------------------

Poyozo Dance
    Techs Required: (Marle) Provoke, (Lucca) Hypno Wave, (Ayla) Triple Kick
    Item Required: White Rock (must be equipped on one of those characters in
                   order to perform this Triple Tech)
    MP: (Marle) 1, (Lucca) 1, (Ayla) 10
    Description: The three girls dance around the enemies with a Poyozo Doll,
                 causing lots of damage and can cause Chaos status on the
                 enemies as well.


Lucca + Robo + Magus
--------------------

OmegaFlare
    Techs Required: (Lucca) *Flare, (Robo) Laser Spin, (Magus) *Dark Bomb
    Item Required: Blue Rock (must be equipped on one of those characters in
                   order to perform this Triple Tech)
    MP: (Lucca) 20, (Robo) 3, (Magus) 8
    Description: Lucca, Robo, and Magus combine their powers to make a giant
                 laser hit all the enemies, nuking them all for great amounts
                 of damage.


Frog + Robo + Marle
-------------------

Grand Dream
    Techs Required: (Frog) Frog Squash, (Robo) Laser Spin, (Marle) *Life 2
    Item Required: Gold Rock (must be equipped on one of those characters in
                   order to perform this Triple Tech)
    MP: (Frog) 15, (Robo) 3, (Marle) 15
    Description: Marle and Robo power up Frog's Masamune, then 3 giants are
                 summoned to cause damage to the enemies.


Frog + Robo + Ayla
------------------

Spin Strike
    Techs Required: (Frog) Leap Slash, (Robo) Robo Tackle, (Ayla) Tail Spin
    Item Required: SilverRock (must be equipped on one of those characters in
                   order to perform this Triple Tech)
    MP: (Frog) 4, (Robo) 4, (Ayla) 10
    Description: Frog jumps in the air while Robo and Ayla spin around the
                 enemy. They both rise and come down on the enemy as Frog
                 stabs it, causing a serious amount of damage.


Magus + Marle + Lucca
---------------------

DarkEternal
    Techs Required: (Magus) *Dark Matter, (Marle) *Ice 2, (Lucca) *Fire 2
    Item Required: Black Rock (must be equipped on one of those characters in
                   order to perform this Triple Tech)
    MP: (Magus) 20, (Marle) 8, (Lucca) 8
    Description: Marle and Lucca spin around Magus as he performs an
                 extremely powerful shadow bomb attack on all the enemies.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  15. Shops -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

========================
Leene Square (1000 A.D.)
========================

Item Shop (Guy in purple tent)
------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


Weapon Shop (Guy standing near upper-right blue tent)
-----------------------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Iron Blade    350
Lode Sword    4000


Armor Shop (Upper-left blue tent)
---------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Karate Gi     300
BronzeHelm    200


=======================
Truce Market (600 A.D.)
=======================

Name          Price
----          -----
Iron Blade    350
Dart Gun      800
Karate Gi     300
BronzeHelm    200
Tonic         10
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


========================
Truce Market (1000 A.D.)
========================

Weapon/Armor/Item Shop (Before the trial)
-----------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
SteelSaber    800
Iron Bow      850
BronzeMail    520
MaidenSuit    560
BronzeHelm    200
Tonic         10
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


Weapon/Armor/Item Shop (After the trial)
----------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Red Katana    4500
Robin Bow     2850
Plasma Gun    3200
Hammer Arm    3500
Titan Vest    1200
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Heal          10
Shelter       150


=======================
Porre Market (600 A.D.)
=======================

Name          Price
----          -----
Gold Suit     1300
Beret         700
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


========================
Porre Market (1000 A.D.)
========================

Name          Price
----          -----
SteelSaber    800
Iron Bow      850
Dart Gun      800
Karate Gi     300
BronzeMail    520
BronzeHelm    200
Tonic         10
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


======================
Trann Dome (2300 A.D.)
======================

Name          Price
----          -----
Auto Gun      1200
Iron Suit     800
Iron Helm     500
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


======================
Arris Dome (2300 A.D.)
======================

Name          Price
----          -----
Auto Gun      1200
Iron Suit     800
Iron Helm     500
Tonic         10
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


=========================
Medina Market (1000 A.D.)
=========================

Weapon/Armor/Item Shop (Before clearing Ozzie's Fort)
-----------------------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Iron Blade    65000
SteelSaber    65000
Demon Edge    65000
Lumin Robe    65000
Flash Mail    65000
Glow Helm     65000
Tonic         2140
Mid Tonic     21400
Full Tonic    65000
Heal          2140
Revive        42800
Shelter       32100
Ether         65000


Weapon/Armor/Item Shop (After clearing Ozzie's Fort)
----------------------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Iron Blade    262
SteelSaber    597
Demon Edge    12684
Lumin Robe    4850
Flash Mail    6342
Glow Helm     1717
Tonic         8
Mid Tonic     75
Full Tonic    523
Heal          8
Revive        150
Shelter       112
Ether         597


==========================
Melchior's Hut (1000 A.D.)
==========================

Name          Price
----          -----
Red Katana    4500
Robin Bow     2850
Plasma Gun    3200
Hammer Arm    3500
Titan Vest    1200
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Heal          10
Shelter       150


========================
Dorino Market (600 A.D.)
========================

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


========================
Choras Market (600 A.D.)
========================

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Ether         800
Mid Ether     2000
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


======================
Choras Inn (1000 A.D.)
======================

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Ether         800
Mid Ether     2000
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150


==========================
Fiona's Shrine (1000 A.D.)
==========================

Name          Price
----          -----
Sight Cap     20000
Memory Cap    20000
Time Hat      30000
Vigil Hat     50000


==========================
Ioka Hut (65,000,000 B.C.)
==========================

Item Shop
---------

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Heal          10


Trading Hut (Before defeating Magus)
------------------------------------

Name          Items Needed
----          ------------
Ruby Gun      Petal (x3) + Fang (x3)
Sage Bow      Petal (x3) + Horn (x3)
Stone Arm     Petal (x3) + Feather (x3)
Flint Edge    Fang (x3) + Horn (x3)
Ruby Vest     Fang (x3) + Feather (x3)
Rock Helm     Horn (x3) + Feather (x3)


Trading Hut (After defeating Magus)
-----------------------------------

Name          Items Needed
----          ------------Dream Gun     Petal (x3) + Fang (x3)
Dream Bow     Petal (x3) + Horn (x3)
Magma Hand    Petal (x3) + Feather (x3)
Aeon Blade    Fang (x3) + Horn (x3)
Ruby Vest     Fang (x3) + Feather (x3)
Rock Helm     Horn (x3) + Feather (x3)


Trading Hut (After getting Chrono Trigger)
------------------------------------------

Name          Items Needed
----          ------------
Ruby Armor    Petal (x10), Fang (x10), Horn (x10), Feather (x10)


====================
Enhasa (12,000 B.C.)
====================

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150
Ether         800


===================
Kajar (12,000 B.C.)
===================

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150
Ether         800


========================
Terra Cave (12,000 B.C.)
========================

Name          Price
----          -----
Demon Edge    17000
CometArrow    7800
Megablast     9800
MegatonArm    15000
FlashBlade    18000
Lumin Robe    6500
Flash Mail    8500
Glow Helm     2300
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150
Ether         800


==========================
Last Village (12,000 B.C.)
==========================

Item Shop (Before meeting Magus again)
--------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150
Ether         800


Weapon/Armor/Item Shop (After meeting Magus again)
--------------------------------------------------

Name          Price
----          -----
Star Sword    25000
SonicArrow    10000
Shock Wave    11000
Kaiser Arm    21000
Rune Blade    24000
Hurricane     35000
Aeon Suit     9000
Aeon Helm     7800
Tonic         10
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Heal          10
Revive        200
Shelter       150
Ether         800
Mid Ether     2000


==========
Black Omen
==========

Name          Price
----          -----
Mid Tonic     100
Full Tonic    700
Mid Ether     2000
Full Ether    6000
HyperEther    10000

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  16. Mini-Games  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Millennial Fair
---------------

When you visit Leene Square, you'll see that the Millennial Fair is taking 
place. There are many different mini-games here you can play, for a chance to 
win some Silver Points. You can exchange Silver Points for regular money by 
talking to the guy in the purple tent in the second area of the square. 
Here's a list of the mini-games you can play, and the prizes for each:

Betting on the Races
    Prize: 20 Silver Points
    Description: In the first area of Leene Square, you'll notice a makeshift
                 path where 4 characters are racing around it. Get to the
                 finish line (by the right side of that path), and talk to
                 the guy in the blue tent to the right. Before the race
                 starts, you can bet on which character will win the upcoming
                 race. For help here, talk to the nearby old man and he'll
                 predict who will win. Usually he's right, so it's
                 recommended you ask him who will win before you bet; that
                 way you can get some easy wins here!

Fighting Gato
    Prize: 15 Silver Points
    Description: In the second area of the square, take the west path into
                 another area. There, you'll see a giant robot there; talk to
                 it and it'll introduce itself as Gato. Choose to fight Gato,
                 and win to get 15 Silver Points as the prize. It would help
                 if you have Marle in your party, and bought new
                 weapons/armor to make this battle easier.

Ring the Bell
    Prize: 1 Silver Point
    Description: In the west area of the first area of this place, there is a
                 pole with a bell at the top of it, and a guy standing to the
                 left of it. Go up to the bell and face it, then press A and
                 you'll start backing up. The object here is to hit the bell
                 at the top. Back up as far as you can, then press A again to
                 charge at the bell. If you hit it hard enough (backing up
                 far enough), you'll most likely hit the bell and win.

Soda-Guzzling Contest
    Prize: 5 Silver Points
    Description: In the east area of the second area of Leene Square, there's
                 a man standing next to a table. Talk to him and he'll
                 challenge you to this contest. The objective is to drink 8
                 cans of soda within a limited amount of time. Press A
                 rapidly to drink the soda (a turbo controller would greatly
                 help here). If you win, you'll get 10 Silver Points.

Tent of Horrors
    Prize: Varies
    Description: In the eastmost section of the first area of Leene Square,
                 there is a tent you can enter. Inside, talk to the floating
                 head and hands and you'll be asked how many Silver Points
                 you wish to pay. Depending on how much you put down, you'll
                 play a different game, each with a different prize. The next
                 3 games in the fair listed below will tell you about what
                 you can play here.

10-Point Game (Tent of Horrors)
    Prize: Poyozo doll/cat food (you win the doll the first time only)
    Description: 3 soldiers walk in and tell you their names. They then walk
                 around, switching their original positions. You'll be asked
                 to pick out a particular soldier; if you win, you get a
                 Poyozo doll, which automatically appears in Crono's house.
                 If you play and win additional times, you'll win cat food,
                 which keeps the cats you win in other games at the fair from
                 leaving Crono's house.

40-Point Game (Tent of Horrors)
    Prize: Crono Clone/cat food (you win the clone the first time only)
    Description: A clone of Crono comes out, and you have to mimic its every
                 move by pressing buttons on the controller (L to raise left
                 arm; R to raise right arm; Y to laugh; A to act surprised).
                 If you mess up once, you lose, so mimic correctly to win
                 this game.

80-Point Game (Tent of Horrors)
    Prize: Cat
    Description: This last game is the toughest of all. One of your party
                 members is slowly lowered into fire, while 3 monsters
                 advance towards you. There are 3 coins in a line, and by
                 pressing A in front of one sends it forward, knocking the
                 monster back a little. Keep the monsters at bay by throwing
                 the coins at them, then when the blue light to the left
                 appears, keep the monsters back and touch the light to raise
                 your partner so they don't get burned. You must continue
                 this until the end to win the prize.


Jet Bike Racing
---------------

When you visit Lab 32 in 2300 A.D., you'll be challenged to a race against a 
robot named Johnny. He wants to race you along some old highway that goes 
through the lab. Use the Control Pad to steer, and the B button to use your 
boosts. You have only 3 boosts to use for this race, so conserve them for the 
end part of the race when you'll need them most. Keep an eye on the map at 
the bottom of the screen, which shows how far down the road you've gone, and 
where the finish line is. After you win the first time, you can come back and 
talk to Johnny to race again anytime.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  17. Side Quests -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Note: All the side quests here are listed in the order that the old man at 
the End of Time lists them. Complete them in whichever order you want, but 
keep in mind that some are more difficult/involving than others are.

===========================
Fiona and the Sunken Desert
===========================

To start this off, head to 12,000 B.C. Visit the Commons near the Last 
Village, and talk to the lady with a small sapling next to her. Tell her to 
plant it with hope. Now, use the Epoch and head to 600 A.D., then visit 
Fiona's Village, which is east of Dorino. Talk to Fiona and her husband, and 
they'll explain the situation with the desert monsters. So, put Frog and 
Marle in your group and head south to the Sunken Desert.

Sunken Desert (600 A.D.)
------------------------

When you enter this area, run forward and you'll be dropped into the cave 
below. Here, run against the moving sands and open the chest to get a Lapis. 
Defeat the enemies and open another chest in the upper-left corner of the 
area to get a Full Ether. Continue to the southwest and defeat some more 
enemies, then open that chest to get an Elixir. Get to the southeast corner 
and open that chest to get an Aeon Suit. Now, head west and south to the next 
room. Here, you'll feel a tremor and a creature will come out of the sand for 
a moment before sinking back in. Go down into the sandy area and open all the 
chests to get the following: Full Tonic, 5000G, Hyper Ether, Full Ether, 
Memory Cap, MuscleRing, Aeon Helm. After you do that, chase down the monster 
when it comes out and approach it to do battle. Read the Bosses section for 
help on winning here. After you win, things will be settled, so head 
northwest to the previous room. Check the sparkling object that appears to 
get a Power Tab, then continue out of this place.

Now, head north to Fiona's Villa and talk to her again. Put Robo in your 
current party and talk to her again. Robo will volunteer to stay behind and 
help revive the forest. So, leave and warp to 1000 A.D. on the Epoch. Land in 
the new forest where the desert used to be, and go north into Fiona's Shrine. 
Talk to the nuns here (one will even sell you different hats), then go north 
and check out Robo's remains. Robo will then come to life and your group will 
celebrate around a campfire outside. Lucca will repair Robo, and you'll hear 
a long story, the group will go to sleep. During the night, Lucca will wake 
up and you'll have control of her, so go southeast to the next area. Check 
out the Gate and you'll warp back to Lucca's house, 10 years earlier.

When Lucca arrives here, read the note on the floor which happens to be an 
excerpt from Lucca's diary in that time period. Go downstairs and then south 
into the next room and you'll see Lara, Lucca's mom, get caught in the giant 
machine. Quickly check out the sparkling object and you'll be asked to enter 
the password, which is LARA (press L, A, R, A). Enter it correctly and Lara 
will be saved (she won't be paralyzed in 1000 A.D. anymore)! Now, go back 
through the Gate to the forest, where Robo will be waiting for Lucca to 
return. He'll give her the GreenDream accessory, ending this side-quest!


============
Ozzie's Fort
============

In 600 A.D., use the Epoch and fly to the island east of where the Black Omen 
floats, and north or Choras. You'll see a structure surrounded by a circle of 
woods, which is Ozzie's Fort. Land at the south end of it, and put strong 
attackers/healers like Frog and Robo in your group. Magus and Ayla are also 
great choices for this area. When you're ready, go north into Ozzie's Fort.

Ozzie's Fort (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you enter this place, Ozzie will greet you and be upset that you 
returned. He'll run off, so head north into the next room. Go north and Ozzie 
will summon Flea to fight you, so read the Bosses section for quick help on 
winning if you need it. After Flea leaves, continue to the following room. 
Here, go forward and Ozzie will annoy you again by sending enemies into the 
room. Luckily, they'll move on the conveyor belt and fall into the pit at the 
end, so you won't have to fight. Ozzie will run away again, so head into the 
next room. Here, go north some more and Ozzie will summon Slash to fight you, 
so read the Bosses section if you need help here as well. After the fight, 
keep going to the next room. Here, go north and Ozzie will make a giant blade 
move up and down right in front of a chest up ahead. Choose not to get the 
chest right now and walk to the east. Another creature will come and get 
killed by the blade, deactivating it. Ozzie will then leave again, so take 
the Full Ether inside the chest and head east. Before going north through the 
door, head directly south into a secret room. Open the chests to get a 
DoomSickle, a Gloom Helm, and a Gloom Cape. Also check the sparkling object 
on the floor to get a Magic Tab. Now, head north to the next room (you may 
want to put Ayla in your group before continuing).

In this room, you'll be trapped by Flea, Slash, and Ozzie. They'll then fight 
you for real, so read the Bosses section for help on winning. After you win, 
Ozzie will flee again, so open the 2 chests nearby to get a Dash Ring and a 
Sight Cap. Now, continue north into the following room. Ozzie will challenge 
you for a final time, but that isn't a real problem for you. Just target and 
attack the switch behind him and your group will be dropped into the previous 
room. Now, go back north to the room where Ozzie is, and he'll taunt you 
again. This time, a cat will walk in and hit the switch that sends Ozzie into 
a pit to his doom. Now that it's over, go back through all the previous rooms 
to exit the fort, since this side quest is over!


====================
Inside the Geno Dome
====================

With the Epoch, travel to 2300 A.D. and fly to the island southeast of the 
Factory. Land there and put Robo as the leader of your group (make sure you 
have either Crono or Magus in your party as well), then enter the Geno Dome.

Geno Dome (2300 A.D.)
---------------------

Inside, go up to the computer screen and press A to activate it. It'll open 
the nearby door, so go on to the next room. Here, there is a giant conveyor 
belt, and the computer from the previous room challenges you to go forward. 
Step on the conveyor and go on to the following area. You'll have to get 
through a series of increasingly tough battles against Proto 4 and Debuggest 
enemies. Have Crono or Magus (whoever's in your group) use *Lightning 2 to 
make quick work of each enemy group. When you get to the end, go through the 
door into the next room. Here, go straight ahead to the wall and hit the 
switch to open the charge pod. Head west and defeat the Debuggest enemies, 
then try to head north in that area. A robot will block you from reaching the 
chest and the Poyozo Doll, so head south and east, then northeast along the 
next path. Before you attack the Proto 4 robots wandering around here, wait 
until one opens the charge pod and becomes electrically charged. Keep this in 
mind for afterward, so defeat the 3 Proto 4's right here. Then, step into 
that charge pod to become electrically charged, then run back down the hall 
and go into the other pod you opened up a few moments ago. It'll open the 
door to the left, so enter that room and open the chests to get a Full Tonic 
and 50000G.

Leave this room and go back north and east to the area where those Proto 4's 
were hanging around. Open the chest to get a Full Tonic, then go west and 
north through the door. Continue north and defeat the Laser Guards along the 
way. Continue north to the wall where you'll see 3 switches with red or green 
lights above them. Make the left and right switches turn red, and the middle 
one stay green. Doing so will open the charge pod to the south and west. Now, 
go back south and east to the charge pod and charge Robo up. Now, go back to 
the pod you just unlocked and step in it to open the door next to it. Enter 
that room and take the Poyozo Doll sitting there, then check out the green 
circular pad that it was sitting on to get a Speed Tab. Now, go back to the 
hallway going west to east along the south end of the room. Go all the way 
east and defeat the Debuggests that appear. From there, go north and through 
the silver door into another room. Open the 2 chests to the east to get an 
Elixir and a Lapis, then defeat the Proto 4 enemies that come out of the 
north wall.

Now, leave this room and go back south and enter the room there, which is an 
elevator leading to the upper floor. Ride the elevator upstairs, then in that 
room, rest/save at the nearby save point. Then, go south and defeat the Laser 
Guards. Go all the way south to the wall, and walk east to get around the 
barrier surrounding the chest. Open it to get a Lapis, then head back north 
and enter the room next to the elevator. Check out the sparkling object in 
the corner directly to your right to get a Power Tab. Continue north through 
this room and you'll hear another voice warning you. Keep going to the next 
room, and defeat the enemies you encounter there. Then, go through the door 
to close the two pods on either side, then go down the elevator. In the next 
room, go directly to the west into a hidden section of the room. Go south and 
east and hit the switch to change the direction the conveyor is moving.

Now, go back around to the elevator and go south. Defeat the Laser Guards, 
then go west and hit the switch to shut off the laser blocking your path. 
Then, run south along the conveyor belt to the end. Go east and south, then 
west and north to the room with the charge pod. Step into it to charge Robo 
up, then quickly run back around to the conveyor belt. Run up it and get off 
in the area to the west. Open the pod and enter it to open the door (if 
you're too slow, try again until you succeed in opening it). Enter that room 
and open the chests to get a HyperEther and a Full Ether. Now, allow the 
broken robot guard here to follow you out of this room, then east and south 
along the conveyor. Continue east and south, then all the way west through 
the hall to the end. Then, go north to the other guard that kept blocking you 
before. When the two guards are in front of each other, they'll stop moving, 
so now's your chance to take the Poyozo Doll and the Vigil Hat in the chest.

After you have both Poyozo Dolls, it's time to advance through this place, so 
head south and east to the first elevator. Go up to the upper floor and save 
at the save point nearby. Then, go south and west to meet another robot known 
as Atropos. After a brief conversation and realization of Robo's original 
plans, Robo will take on Atropos by himself. Read the Bosses section for help 
on winning this battle. After you win, Atropos will regain her senses and 
give Robo a Ribbon that permanently increases his Speed and Magic Defense. 
After she disappears, go back and rest/save your game again. Then, go north 
and Robo will jump up to hit the switch on the wall, which opens the room 
behind it. Enter the room and get a MegaElixir from the chest, then head 
south and west along the path to hear another threat from the voice above. 
Climb down the ladder and head west and north along the path. Open the chest 
to get 15000G, then continue into the next room. There, your group will 
realize that people are being moved on the conveyor belt in front of you and 
killed. You can't do anything for now, unfortunately. For now, head east and 
south to the following room.

In this room, open the chest to the east to get a Full Ether. Then, leave 
this room and head west to the following room. Continue south and east and up 
the ladder at the end, then head northwest through here. Defeat the Laser 
Guards along the way and you'll notice two green pods located in either side 
of the room. Check out each one, placing a Poyozo Doll on each. Doing so will 
open the door in the middle. So, restore your party's HP/MP and continue into 
that room, where you'll meet the Mother Brain. After a brief speech, you'll 
enter battle. Read the Bosses section for help on beating this boss. After 
you beat it, Robo will gain the Terra Arm and Crisis Arm weapons, and your 
group will leave the Geno Dome, completing this side quest!


=============
The Sun Stone
=============

To start this side quest, head to 2300 A.D. and fly to the island southwest 
of Death Peak. Land there and equip your group with fire-resistant armor, 
then head into the Sun Palace.

Sun Palace (2300 A.D.)
----------------------

Inside this place, go north and you'll meet the Son of Sun, which you'll have 
to do battle with. Read the Bosses section for help on winning here. After 
you win, the Son of Sun will retreat, so head north across the bridge. Go 
around the room and continue north, then approach the Son of Sun and it'll 
disappear, leaving the Moon Stone behind. Take it, then leave this palace.

Now, board the Epoch and head to 65,000,000 B.C. There, fly to the island in 
the northeast corner of the map and land there, then enter the Sun Keep. Go 
north and check out the sparkling area in the light, then leave the Moon 
Stone there. Leave and use the Epoch to warp to 2300 A.D. again, and enter 
the Sun Keep in that time period. You'll find that the Moon Stone is missing, 
and it's been gone for about 1300 years, so leave here and warp to 1000 A.D. 
There, enter the Sun Keep again and your group will realize that the stone 
has not been gone too long. So, fly southwest towards Porre, where you'll 
notice a bunch of sparkling lights coming from the Mayor's Manor. Land and 
enter the manor, and talk to the Mayor; he'll deny ever knowing about the 
stone! So, leave here and visit the nearby Snail Stop. Buy a Jerky from the 
guy, then warp back to 600 A.D. and enter the Elder's House. Talk to the lady 
there and she'll want some Jerky, so give it to her for free and she'll be so 
happy.

Now, warp back to 1000 A.D. and enter the Mayor's Manor again. Talk to the 
Mayor and he'll gladly give you back the Moon Stone. Now, leave here and fly 
to the Sun Keep in the northeast. Place the stone back in the light, then 
warp to 2300 A.D. Enter the Sun Keep with Lucca in your party and she'll 
decide that the Sun Stone can be used to make a weapon. Your group will 
automatically end up in Lucca's house, where she'll make the WonderShot 
weapon for herself. Taban will come and give her the Sun Shades, also made 
from the Sun Stone. Now, equip the new items if you want, then leave here, 
completing this side quest.


==================
The Ghost of Cyrus
==================

For this side quest, start in 1000 A.D. and head to Choras in the southeast. 
Visit the inn and the a guy will tell you about a ghost haunting the Northern 
Ruins. Head north to the ruins and you'll come across Cyrus inside, who you 
cannot attack. So, leave here and warp back to 600 A.D. Head to the Choras 
Inn and talk to the man there; he'll say something about his missing tools. 
Go to 1000 A.D. and return to the Choras Inn. Talk to the man sitting down 
and he'll tell you his tools are with his wife at home. So, head to the 
Residence to the southwest and talk to his wife inside to get the Tools. Now, 
board the Epoch and warp back to 600 A.D. Visit the Cafe and talk to the man 
sitting down here (he looks just like the guy in 1000 A.D.) and give him the 
Tools so he can go work at the ruins. Then, leave here and go south to the 
Residence. Talk to the man inside and he'll take his team up to the ruins. 
Follow him by heading northeast, then enter the Northern Ruins.

Northern Ruins (600 A.D.)
-------------------------

When you enter this place, the team will tell you they only fixed what they 
could because of the monsters. After they leave, go west and down the stairs 
to reach the next room. There, go south and defeat the 2 Sentry enemies. 
Then, go east and defeat the next couple of Sentries. Go north and open the 
chest to get a HyperEther (as a quick note regarding all the chests in this 
place; if you choose not to open the chests in 600, return here in 1000 and 
open them to gain all their contents, then return to 600 and open the same 
chests to get the same items again, it's your choice). After that, go back 
and you'll be surrounded by another group of Sentries. Beat them and continue 
west and north to the previous room. Now, head east through the hall and go 
up the stairs at the end into another room. Here, defeat the Defuncts and 
Reapers throughout the room, then after you clear the room of monsters, go 
back to the previous room and continue out of this place.

Go back south to Choras and enter the southmost Residence. Talk to the guy 
there and pay him 2000G to repair the Northern Ruins. After they all leave, 
go back up to the ruins and they'll tell you to get them when you get rid of 
the monsters. So, go west and down the stairs to the next room. Go around the 
room and head north through the door at the end into the next room. Here, go 
north through another door and you'll come to the grave of Cyrus. Put Frog as 
the leader of your group and check out the grave, and the ghost of Cyrus will 
appear and talk to Frog. After it disappears, the Masamune will be upgraded 
and automatically equipped on Frog. Now, head out of this room and continue 
all the way out of the ruins.

Head south to the Residence and pay the guy inside 2000G again to repair the 
ruins. Now, head back up into the ruins and go east, then upstairs to the 
next room. This time, the doors in here are no longer blocked by holes in the 
floor, so enter the left room and take the Elixir from the chest. Enter the 
right room and check out the sealed box, but do NOT take its contents for 
now. Then, go north into the middle room. Continue north through the next 
couple of rooms, defeating all the enemies along the way. At the northmost 
point, check out the two sealed chests, but do NOT open them yet! Now, go 
back through the previous rooms and continue all the way out of the ruins.

Now, warp to 1000 A.D. and enter the ruins (known as the Hero's Grave in this 
era). Go back to the rooms with the sealed chests and claim the upgraded 
items, including a Valkerye, a Shiva Edge, and a Moon Armor. Leave here and 
go back to 600 A.D., then reenter the ruins and enter those same rooms. 
Defeat the enemies along the way and open the sealed chests to get a Kali 
Blade, a Siren, and a Nova Armor. After you're done here, you can leave since 
the side quest has been completed!


=========================
Getting the Rainbow Shell
=========================

To start this side quest, head to the Cafe in Choras in 600 A.D. (it's to the 
southeast). Talk to Toma the adventurer inside (the one standing to the left 
at the counter) and he'll give you Toma's Pop. He'll then tell you to pour it 
on his grave if he doesn't return. So, leave here and use the Epoch to warp 
to 1000 A.D. Visit the West Cape to the northwest of Choras, then check out 
the grave of Toma. You'll automatically pour Toma's Pop on it, and then the 
ghost of Toma will appear. He'll tell you to head to the Giant's Claw on an 
island to the northwest, where the Rainbow Shell is located. After Toma 
leaves, check behind the tombstone to find a Speed Tab, then exit this area 
and warp back to 600 A.D. There, fly to the island and land, then form your 
group and enter the Giant's Claw (I recommend taking Crono, Ayla, and either 
Frog or Robo).

Giant's Claw (600 A.D.)
-----------------------

When you enter this area, go northeast and down the steps, then read the note 
on the ground to the east. After that, go south into the next room. Continue 
south through here to the following room. Here, head west and defeat the 
Gigasaur and 2 Leapers that come out, then open the chest to get a Sight Cap. 
Now, head southeast and down the steps, then continue east and defeat the 3 
Lizardactyls that appear. Then, go north into the next room. Here, there are 
three switches in front of you. Hit the one to the left to make two pits open 
up. Drop into the pits to the room below, then defeat the Fossil Apes there. 
Hit the right switch in there and beat the 3 Leapers, then hit the left 
switch to open the skull head. Enter it and check the sparkling object to get 
a Power Tab, then go all the way south to the following room. In this room, 
go west and climb down the ladder about halfway down the path. Go west and 
open the chest to get a Full Ether, then go east and check the sparkling 
object to get another Power Tab.

Now, go and climb back up the ladder and continue west. Follow the path west 
and south, then east while defeating the enemies along the way. At the end, 
open the chest in the upper-right corner to get a Blue Rock, which is crucial 
to performing a certain Triple Tech. Then, go south to the next room. Here, 
go east and climb down the south ladder. Follow the path west and south, then 
to the east. Pass the second ladder and open the chest at the end of the path 
to get a Lapis, then go back and climb down the next ladder. Then, continue 
west and into the following room. Here, go north and defeat the Leapers and 
Gigasaur, then continue north. Go through the open skull to the left and go 
up the stairs to the next room. In this room, go left and defeat the Fossil 
Ape and Lizardactyls (you could hit the left switch if you don't want to 
fight at all). Then, continue into the southwest room. Go west and open the 
chest to get a FrenzyBand, then go back to the previous room.

This time, you'll have to fight the enemies to the left, so beat them and 
head all the way to the east. Defeat those enemies of hit the switch to drop 
them into a pit, then enter the southeast room. Here, defeat the two Rubbles 
and go northeast to the next room. There, check out the egg to the right of 
the pit and you'll be dropped into another room. In that room, go west and 
south out of the cell. Then, go west and north and up the stairs to the next 
room. Here, take the sparkling object on the floor, which happens to be a 
Power Tab. Then, go back downstairs and head all the way to the east side of 
the room. From there, go north and down the stairs to the next room. Here, go 
south and rest, then save at the save point. Also, I recommend getting a good 
healer like Robo in your group. Then, go west and hit the switch to open the 
cell. Go north through the cell and into the next room. Continue north and 
you'll see the giant Rust Tyrano. Try to go around it and it'll stop you. 
You'll then have to fight, so read the Bosses section for help on winning. 
After you win, continue north and check out the Rainbow Shell. It's too 
heavy, and a party member suggests to get the people in the castle (Guardia) 
to help.

Now, go south and out of this room and your group will automatically be in 
the throne room at Guardia Castle. Your group will ask the king to store the 
Rainbow Shell in the castle, and the king will accept. After that, go south 
and exit the castle, then use the Epoch to warp to 1000 A.D. There, enter 
Guardia Castle again (make sure Marle is in your party).

Guardia Castle (1000 A.D.)
--------------------------

When you enter the castle, you'll find that you can't enter the throne room 
and that the king is on trial for selling the royal treasures. So, go east 
and north and go up the stairs to the left. Open the chest in the next room 
to get a HyperEther, then continue all the way upstairs to the top. There, go 
east and talk to the guards. Marle will push through and your group will walk 
in on the trial as it's taking place. Marle will talk to the king about what 
happened, and she'll be told to show proof (the Rainbow Shell) to prove the 
king's innocence. Marle is then kicked out of the trial, and your group 
decides to head to the basement. Go west and down the stairs to the first 
floor (the one with the two guards standing on either side of). There, go 
east and down another set of stairs to the basement. The guard there was 
attacked, so go around the hall and defeat the Gnashers there.

After that, your group will run ahead as the trial carries on. Defeat the 
next group of enemies you encounter, then open the chests in this room you 
can reach to get a Lapis, a HyperEther, and an Elixir. Then, continue north 
to the next room. Keep going north through the next several hallways while 
defeating the weak enemies along the way. In the last room, open the chests 
to get another Elixir, HyperEther, and Lapis, then check out the Rainbow 
Shell. Marle will read a note attached to the shell, then take a piece of the 
shell as evidence (PrismShard). You'll then see a scene where the jury is 
reaching their verdict in the court. So, quickly run south through the halls 
to the end, then go west and up the stairs. In the main floor, go west and up 
the next set of stairs to the very top. Go down the hall there and talk to 
the guards blocking access to the court, and they refuse to let you in. Marle 
suggests another way, and as the king is deemed as guilty, Marle and the 
group will break into the courtroom and show the Chancellor proof. He'll get 
mad and the king will leave a free man, then the Chancellor will turn into 
Yakra XIII and attack, so read the Bosses section for help on winning here.

After you beat Yakra's descendant, the King will reenter the room and talk 
with Marle about past events. After that, your group will be in the throne 
room and King Guardia will let you leave. Melchior will then come in and 
offer to make weapons out of the Rainbow Shell, then he'll leave. So, go 
south out of this room, but before you leave the castle completely, go east 
and north and upstairs to the courtroom again. Take the sparkling object to 
get the Yakra Key. Go down the stairs to a room with a locked chest, and 
unlock it with the key to free the real Chancellor. Now, continue down to the 
first floor and head east, then go down those stairs to the basement. Go 
around the corner and up the halls to the room with the Rainbow Shell. Talk 
to Melchior there and he'll offer to make either 1 Prism Dress, or 3 Prism 
Helms. Choose what you will, then he'll make whatever you choose. Talk to him 
again if you have the Sun Stone and he'll make the Prism Specs and Rainbow 
weapon. He'll then leave, so head all the way south and out of the basement, 
then continue southwest and out of the castle completely, ending this side 
quest!


==============
The Black Omen
==============

Late in the game, the Ocean Palace from 12,000 B.C. will rise out of the 
ocean and float in the air. It appears in all time eras from 12,000 B.C. 
onward (not in 65,000,000 B.C. because it didn't exist then). You must use 
the Epoch to fly up and enter it. You can enter it at any point, except in 
2300 A.D., since the Day of Lavos has already passed. To enter, just fly 
under it and the words "Black Omen" will appear; press A to enter. Also, the 
inside of the Black Omen is exactly the same in all time era, so you can't 
beat a boss in the 1000 A.D. era, then go back to 600 A.D. and enter the 
Black Omen to refight it. The same goes for finding treasures in here. When 
you're ready, go to any time period other than 65,000,000 B.C. and enter the 
Black Omen.

Black Omen
----------

When you enter this place, go north and defeat the 6 Laser Guards on the 
wall. Then, go through the door and enter the room (if you want to leave the 
Black Omen, go back here and check the sparkling area at the southmost 
section of this area). Here, go north and you'll meet Queen Zeal. She'll 
taunt you and summon the Mega Mutant to attack before the leaves. So, read 
the Bosses section for help on winning this battle. After you win, continue 
north and defeat the 2 Incognito/PeepingDoom enemies in the way. Then, head 
east to the next area. In this area, go east and defeat the 2 Martellos, then 
head north and defeat the Goons you encounter. Beat them and continue north, 
and beat the Martello and Synchrites as well. After that, go east and south 
to a save point, then rest and save there. Then, head back north and continue 
to the next room.
In this room, go north and defeat the 2 groups of Panels along the way. Then, 
keep going into the next room. There, head all the way north through this 
room while defeating the Boss Orbs and Sidekicks along the way. At the end, 
head west into the following room. Here, go west and north and defeat the 2 
Metal Mutes you encounter. Then, continue north and defeat 2 more Metal 
Mutes, along with 2 Flyclops enemies. After that, go north to the next room. 
In this room, there is a teleportation device in the middle of the room. Step 
into it and you'll warp to another room; when you get there, go south to the 
following room. Here, check out the sparkling orb to the left and the 
elevator will start moving downward. You'll have to defeat 2 groups of 
enemies along the way: 2 Cybots, then 4 Ruminators. Beat them all and you'll 
reach the bottom. At that point, go north into the next room.

Here, follow the path east and north through this room while defeating the 
Boss Orbs and Sidekicks along the way. Follow the zigzag path to the end 
where you can go north, but first you should continue east and open the chest 
to get a MegaElixir. Then, go back west and head north and defeat the 
Synchrite and Flyclops enemies you encounter. Beat them, and head west to a 
chest containing 30000G. Then, go east and north to the next room. In this 
room, make your way north while defeating the enemies you come across. When 
the path splits, head east and north to a chest; open it to get a Magic Seal. 
Then, continue north and defeat the Synchrite and Martello, and head 
northwest to the next room. Here, open the 2 chests on either side of you to 
get an Elixir and a Vigil Hat. Continue north and open the next 2 chests to 
get a Nova Armor and a MegaElixir. Keep going north and around the 2 Nus for 
right now, then open the last 2 chests to get another MegaElixir and a Haste 
Helm.

Now, there are two Nus as you may know in this room. You can talk to the one 
to the right and choose to "Wake up" if you want to return to the entrance of 
Black Omen. If not, you can talk to the left Nu and buy some goods from it. 
After you're done here, head to the save point in this room and rest/save 
again. Then, check out the north wall and go through the door into the 
following room. Here, go west and defeat the Tubster that appears at the end. 
After that, head north to the next room. In this room, go north and defeat 
the Cybots and Incognitos further ahead. Continue north through this room and 
get through the constant line of Ruminators at the north end of the room. 
They keep reappearing, so it's best you run between two of them when you have 
a chance. Open the chest in the northwest corner to get a ZodiacCape, then 
make your way east into the next room.

In this room, head all the way east and defeat the groups of enemies that 
appear along the way. Be sure to open the chest in the middle area to get a 
MegaElixir. At the end, head south into the next room. Here, go south and 
open the chest along the way to get a Power Seal. Then, continue south and 
defeat the 2 Flyclops and Tubster enemies. Next, head south a bit more and 
defeat the Cybot and Martello there. After that, open the chest in the 
southeast corner to get a Speed Tab, then go southwest to the next area. 
Here, make your way all the way west and open the chest at the end to get 
another Spped Tab. Then, go back east and north through the door into the 
following room. In this room, go up the steps and you'll be teleported into 
another room. There, head north to the next room. Here, go north and take the 
first path to the west. Head southwest and defeat the Aliens and Blobs you 
encounter. Then, continue west and go south to a chest containing an Elixir. 
Now, head all the way north and east at the end. Defeat the Boss Orb and 
Sidekicks there, then continue east and north along the eastmost path.

Head west at the northmost point of this path and open the chest near the 
center to get a Speed Tab. Go north and west and defeat the 2 Aliens, then 
open the chest at the other side to get a MegaElixir. Then, head west and 
continue north into the next room. Here, rest and save at the save point. I 
also recommend having a party that consists of Crono, Frog, and Magus. When 
you're ready, continue north and the Giga Mutant will appear to fight, so 
read the Bosses section for help on beating it. After you win this battle, go 
back and rest/save again if needed, then head north to the following room. 
Here, step into the teleporter to warp to another room. When you get to your 
destination, go south to the next room. Here, check out the sparkling orb to 
the right to make the elevator move upward. You'll have to fight a group of 
Ruminators along the way, so defeat them. When you get to the top, head north 
to the next room.

In this room, go north and defeat the 2 Synchrites, then follow the path west 
and north through this area. You'll see 2 small black creatures moving back 
and forth further ahead. Try to get around them without touching them if you 
can, but if you can't, just defeat the 2 Goons that come out. Then, continue 
east and follow the path through the rest of this room while defeating the 
enemies along the way. At the end, go through the north door into the next 
room. Here, go forward and defeat the 4 Panels to make a save point appear to 
the left. Then, go west and north to a chest containing a Speed Tab. Rest and 
save at the save point if you want, then continue east and north where the 
TerraMutant will appear and fight you. Read the Bosses section for help on 
beating this boss. After you beat it, open the 2 chests in the corners to get 
a MegaElixir and the White Rock, which you'll need to perform a Triple Tech 
with Marle, Lucca, and Ayla. Now, go back and rest/save, then continue north 
to the next room. Here, go all the way up the hall and into the following 
room. In this next room, a Lavos Spawn will appear to fight, so read the 
Bosses section for help on beating it.

After defeating the Lavos Spawn, continue north to the next room. Here, 
defeat the 5 Panels to make another save point appear, as well as the door 
leading to the next room. This is your last chance to save before the last 
bunch of bosses, so use a Shelter and save your game here. Also, I recommend 
having a party of Crono, Frog, and either Ayla or Magus (I recommend Ayla 
here for her strong attack power). Also, make sure you have a large supply of 
MegaElixirs and other healing items since you will need them for the final 
several battles here. After you're done forming a group, head north and into 
the next room. Here, head all the way north through this room and you'll meet 
Queen Zeal at the end. Following her speech, she'll fight you, so read the 
Bosses section for help on beating her. After that, she'll send the Mammon 
Machine to attack, so fight that as well with help from the Bosses section of 
this guide. After you beat that, Zeal will fight you one last time in her 
ultimate form. As always, read the Bosses section for help on winning.

After you defeat Queen Zeal for the last time, Lavos will awaken and you'll 
immediately enter battle against it for the final battle. Read the Bosses 
section for help on taking on Lavos. After you're done, congratulations on 
beating Chrono Trigger!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  18. Endings -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

There are a grand total of 13 different endings in this game. A different 
ending occurs depending on the events that occur during the game, and when 
you decide to go fight Lavos (in New Game+ mode). Here is a list of each 
ending, along with what must occur to achieve that ending, as well as a brief 
description of each ending.

Meet the Staff
--------------

How Accessed: Fight Lavos by warping via the warp on the right telepod in
              Lucca's invention at the fair, before fighting Yakra in the
              Cathedral. For an alternative method, defeat Lavos when you
              fight him in the Ocean Palace (prior to Crono dying).

Description: You'll be able to meet and talk to the development staff of the
             game.


Nu and Ribbit
-------------

How Accessed: The first time you get to the End of Time, warp via the bucket
              to fight Lavos. Defeat Lavos to get this ending.

Description: Throughout the credits, a Nu and a Ribbit will be running
             around, performing their antics (the Nu sleeping while the
             Ribbit harasses it).


Crono the Dark Mage
-------------------

How Accessed: Warp via the bucket and defeat Lavos before getting the Hero
              Medal from Tata.

Description: Crono rules as a "wizard king" and has to face Tata. Also, Robo
             gets a girlfriend and lives happily in the future.


Happily Ever After
------------------

How Accessed: Warp via the bucket and defeat Lavos after getting the Hero
              Medal, but before returning to 65,000,000 B.C. for the party.

Description: Magus, Ozzie, Slash, and Flea are at the North Cape in 12,000
             B.C. Meanwhile, an army gathers at Guardia Castle, and you see
             Frog leave his home unarmed. Cameo appearances of the rest of
             your party are in this ending.


Fixing Robo
-----------

How Accessed: Right after you give the repaired Masamune to Frog at his home,
              warp via the bucket and defeat Lavos.

Description: Marle and Frog are trying to fix Robo again, then Frog goes to
             Magus's Castle and they fight.


Frog vs. Magus
--------------

How Accessed: After giving Frog the repaired Masamune, and before defeating
              Magus at his castle, warp via the bucket and defeat Lavos.

Description: Frog goes to Magus's Castle and defeats him, which allows Frog
             to revert back to his original form.


Dino Shores
-----------

How Accessed: After beating Magus in his castle, but before defeating the
              Black Tyrano in 65,000,000 B.C., warp via the bucket and defeat
              Lavos.

Description: The Reptites are the dominant race, which means everyone is a
             Reptite instead of a human!


Magus Ending
------------

How Accessed: After you defeat Azala/Black Tyrano, warp via the bucket and
              defeat Lavos.

Description: In the credits, you'll see Frog approaching a statue with 2
             chests. Also, there are several scenes with Magus, Schala, and
             Janus.

Slideshow
---------

How Accessed: In 12,000 B.C., right after Schala opens the door in Zeal
              Palace with her pendant, go back to the cave and warp to the
              End of Time. Do NOT power up the Pendant you have, though.
              Then, use the bucket to warp to and defeat Lavos.

Description: Marle and Lucca will talk about events that never took place.
             Also, Crono actually "speaks" in this ending.


Magus vs. Lavos
---------------

How Accessed: As soon as you get the Epoch, warp to the End of Time and use
              the bucket to warp to 1999 and defeat Lavos.

Description: Clips showing the lives of Frog and Magus are shown, among
             others. Magus then goes to the Ocean Palace and fights Lavos by
             himself.


Resurrecting Crono
------------------

How Accessed: After Crono's death, warp via the bucket and defeat Lavos.

Description: The group returns to the End of Time. Everyone has to leave
             because the Gate's closing. Marle returns to the Millennial Fair
             and marches in the parade alone. She goes to see the Nadia Bell,
             then balloons take her away to another area, where she'll see
             Crono in the distance, and run towards him.


Frog and Glenn (without Crono)
------------------------------

How Accessed: After you kill Magus (if you chose to fight him the second time
              at North Cape), warp via the bucket and defeat Lavos (without
              resurrecting Crono).

Description: Frog becomes human again when he comes out of the Gate, and
             Lucca and Marle go to watch the king hang the Nadia Bell.


Family Reunion
--------------

How Accessed: Defeat Lavos after resurrecting Crono.

Description: Crono will be awakened by a soldier telling him that he'll be
             executed. Crono goes to see the king, and is thanked along with
             other people for saving the past, present, and future. Then,
             after the parade at the Millennial Fair, the group will leave.

Alternate Ending #1: If you did not crash the Epoch into Lavos during the
                     battle, Crono's mom will chase the cats out of the house
                     and into a Gate. The group then uses the Epoch to look
                     for the cats. (This takes place instead of the group
                     leaving in the normal version of this ending.)

Alternate Ending #2: If you did crash Epoch into Lavos, everyone will leave
                     at the end of the regular ending, but Crono, Marle, and
                     Lucca stay behind. As they talk to the king, Marle flies
                     away by holding some balloons, and Crono jumps on. They
                     both fly away and the credits roll.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  19. Secrets/Tips and Tricks -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Gate to Guardia Forest in 1000 A.D.
-----------------------------------

To reveal the time pillar at the End of Time leading to Guardia Forest in 
1000 A.D., you must first go to 2300 A.D. Visit the Bangor Dome and take the 
Gate there to the End of Time. The new time pillar will appear, so take it to 
the forest, where you'll find a mysteriously sealed chest containing a Power 
Ring.


Mysteriously Sealed Chests
--------------------------

Throughout the course of the game, you'll notice there are several black 
chests that are sealed by a mysterious force. After you power up the pendant 
in Zeal Palace, you'll be able to open such chests and gain their contents. 
Here's a list of where each chest is located, along with what's inside:

Note: For the chests found in the same place in two time periods (Truce Inn 
in 600 and 1000; Mayor's Manor in 1000, Elder's House in 600; Guardia Castle 
in 600 and 1000; Hero's Grave in 1000, Northern Ruins in 600), visit the 
place in 600 A.D. first. Check out the chest(s), but choose NOT to take the 
contents inside. Now, go to the same place in 1000 A.D. and take the upgraded 
items in the chests. Then, go back to 600 and take the original contents. 
However, for the chest in Guardia Castle, you must have Marle in your party 
to get to the one in 1000 A.D.

Heckran Cave (1000 A.D.): Wall Ring, Dash Ring

Guardia Forest (1000 A.D.): Power Ring
               (600 A.D.): Speed Tab

Forest Ruins (1000 A.D.): Swallow or Safe Helm (can only take one)

Magic Cave (600 A.D.): Magic Ring

Truce Inn (1000 A.D.): Blue Mail
          (600 A.D.): Blue Vest

Mayor's Manor (Porre; 1000 A.D.): Black Mail, White Mail
Elder's House (Porre; 600 A.D.): Black Vest, White Vest

Guardia Castle (1000 A.D.): Red Mail
               (600 A.D.): Red Vest

Hero's Grave (1000 A.D.): Moon Armor
Northern Ruins (600 A.D.): Nova Armor

Hero's Grave (1000 A.D.): Shiva Edge
Northern Ruins (600 A.D.): Kali Blade
Hero's Grave (1000 A.D.): Valkerye
Northern Ruins (600 A.D.): Siren


Soft Reset
----------

To reset your game without having to get up and push Reset on your SNES, just 
press Start, Select, L, and R simultaneously.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  20. Credits -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Pop (SPop6(at)aol.com): For sending me the list of endings for this game!

phoenixfxp(at)hotmail.com: For sending me many spelling corrections and other 
tidbits for this FAQ!

Chris R B (crumbworks(at)sympatico.ca): For letting me know the White Rock is 
necessary for the Poyozo Dance Triple Tech (mistake on my part for not adding 
that line sooner).

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  21. Copyright Notice  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2001-2002 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved. This 
file was entirely written by me, unless otherwise noted in the Credits 
section of this file. This file may NOT be posted on ANY website, except the 
select few I list below:

GameFAQs (http://www.gamefaqs.com)
GameWinners (http://www.gamewinners.com)
VG Strategies (http://vgstrategies.about.com)
GameAdvice (http://www.gameadvice.com)
IGN FAQs (http://faqs.ign.com)

Do not ask me if you may post this file as a whole or in part, because you 
WILL be denied. I have been ripped off WAY too many times in the past, and 
even in the present day, and I just prefer to keep my work on the sites 
above. If you are writing a FAQ for this game and would like to use a little 
snippet, please ask me first since I sometimes allow people to use tiny bits 
and pieces; either way you must still ask first! I don't care who you are, 
how good your site is, etc., because I do not give permission to ANYONE 
nowadays; nothing against you if you truly are legitimate, but this is how I 
have to be thanks to the bad ones out there. If I find you have posted this 
or any other file I have created where it is not authorized, I will make sure 
it is removed and you will be sorry, simply put.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  22. Contact Information -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

If you have to contact me for any reason regarding my work or any other 
matters, please email me at dbm11085(at)hotmail.com. Note that I do NOT 
respond to emails with questions already answered in this file; unless this 
file is not marked as "FINAL", this file most likely has any information you 
may need. Therefore, if you mail me, do not expect a response; I am busy 
mostly and I have no time to paraphrase my own work to help you if you're too 
lazy to look yourself!

If you have anything to add/contribute to this file, email it to the address 
above. If it's of use, I will most likely email you back saying I'm going to 
post it, giving you full credit for what I use. Thank you for reading this 
file, and be sure to take a peek at all my work at the URL below:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=