*****************************************************************************

              The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask FAQ/Walkthrough
                            For the Nintendo 64
                    Version FINAL (Last Updated 1/1/2002)
                  By Devin Morgan (dbm11085(at)hotmail.com)

    This file is Copyright (c)2000-2002 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved.

*****************************************************************************

Table of Contents

1. What's New
2. Introduction
3. Story
4. Controls
5. Walkthrough
6. Enemies
7. Mini-Bosses
8. Bosses
9. Items
10. Heart Pieces
11. Masks
12. Songs
13. Shops
14. Spider Houses
15. Keaton's Questions
16. Secrets/Tips and Tricks
17. Credits
18. Copyright Notice
19. Contact Information

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  1. What's New -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Version FINAL (1/1/02): The final update to be made to this FAQ.

Version 1.0 (5/27/01): The newly reformatted version of this FAQ.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  2. Introduction -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Well, the wait is over since the newest Zelda game for the Nintendo 64 has 
arrived! This game is very similar to the original Ocarina of Time engine, 
but with a few changes here and there to suit this game. Anyway, you have 3 
days (the time is shorter because the game counts the time differently) to 
complete the game. However, you can warp back in time and alter time to 
accomplish certain tasks. There are also various masks you can collect, and 
you turn into that particular creature when wearing that mask. I'm not going 
to discuss the game anymore for now, so why don't you go buy this game and 
see for yourself!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  3. Story  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

In the land of Hyrule, there echoes a legend. A legend held dearly by the 
Royal Family that tells of a boy...

A boy who, after battling evil and saving Hyrule, crept away from that land 
that had made him a legend...

Done with the battles he once waged across time, he embarked on a journey. A 
secret and personal journey...

A journey in search of a beloved and invaluable friend...

A friend with whom he parted ways when he finally fulfilled his heroic 
destiny and took his place among legends...

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  4. Controls -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Control Stick: Move around in the game, move cursor in menus

Start: Access the submenu during the game

A: Action button (there is a blue circle on the top of the screen with the
   action you can perform; press A to perform that action), dive, talk to
   people, etc., roll (press this while running to roll)

B: Use your Sword to attack (hold B to charge Sword for spinning attack)

C-Up: Change camera view, listen to what Tatl has to say

C-Down, Left, Right: Use items currently assigned to the C buttons

Z: Use Z-Targeting (when fighting an enemy, press Z to lock onto the enemy to
   make it your target for attack)

L: Show or hide the map of the area you're in

R: Raise your shield in front of you for protection

Z + Left or Right + B: Swing Sword horizontally

Z + Up + B: Stab with your Sword

Control Stick (Make a full rotation) + B: Spin attack

Z + A: Jump attack with the Sword (must have the Sword out first)

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  5. Walkthrough  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Introduction
------------

The game's opening scene shows Link riding Epona slowly through a mysterious 
forest. They stop and two fairies appear and knock Link off the horse. At 
that point, the Skull Kid will appear with the Mask of Majora on. Skull Kid 
will try to rob Link and he'll take Link's ocarina. After an argument between 
the two fairies, Link wakes up and Skull Kid tries to get away with Epona and 
the ocarina. Link grabs onto Epona and gets dragged along for a while before 
falling, allowing Skull Kid to get away for now. You will then gain control 
of Link after this. So, head north and cut down all the bushes for some quick 
rupees. After that, head up into the cave that Skull Kid vanished into. 
You'll appear in another area of this weird forest. Go right and up towards 
the back of this area first, and cut down more bushes to get some rupees. 
Watch out for when the bushes start moving since they'll chase after you 
before disappearing into the ground. Then, head back to the entrance to this 
room and go up the "steps" in the middle. Jump from ledge to ledge to the 
end, then go up and enter another cave. Here, Link will enter a room with a 
seemingly endless pit and fall down it. At the bottom, you'll meet the Skull 
Kid. He'll tell you he got rid of Epona, and then he'll taunt you for a 
moment before sending a whole team of Deku Scrubs after you. They'll turn you 
into Deku Link, and then Skull Kid will laugh some more before leaving the 
area with one of his fairies. The other "good" fairy was left behind and 
wants you to open the door Skull Kid escaped from. Now that you have control 
again, destroy the nearby bushes to get some rupees. Then, go up to the door 
and press A to open it. Head up the path to the end and the fairy will 
introduce itself as Tatl before joining you in your journey.

Now that you're a little used to the controls, go up and drop down to the 
ground. Destroy the bushes with a spin attack (press A) to get rupees. After 
that, go to the nearby Deku Flower and press A to dive into it, then release 
A after a moment to start flying. Fly onto a higher ledge, then do it again 
with another Deku Flower to get to the top ledge again. Then, use the Deku 
Flower there and fly across the room to the ledge at the other side. Go up 
and open the door to reach the next area. Here, go up and dive into the Deku 
Flower. Then, fly up and left to the next ledge. There, use that Deku Flower 
and fly up onto the left ledge. Open the chest there to get 10 Deku Nuts. 
Now, use the Deku Flower and fly to the right around the wall to another 
ledge. Next, turn around and look towards the left to a ledge in the 
distance. Use the Deku Flower on this ledge and fly onto that next ledge. Go 
up to the next Deku Flower and Tatl will call you from the following ledge. 
Press Z to Z-Target the tree she's flying next to, and then press A to talk 
to her to learn how to talk to people standing far away. Now, dive into the 
Deku Flower and fly to that ledge and check out that tree. After that, go up 
and into the next area. Here, go up and continue up the path in front of you. 
When you reach the top, turn around and go up towards the door. Suddenly, a 
voice calls you and the man who owns the Happy Mask Shop will appear behind 
you. He'll offer to change you back to normal after you find the item that 
the little imp stole from you. In exchange, you agree to find the important 
mask stolen from this man. Agree to help, then go up through the door to 
enter Clock Town for the first time.

Clock Town
----------

As soon as you enter this town, the time for the game starts ticking, just so 
you know. You can pause the time by pressing Start and staying on the submenu 
until you're ready. Anyway, go right and up to a golden Deku Flower. A golden 
Deku Scrub will appear and tell you not to touch its property. It'll also 
offer to give up its Deku Flower if you give it the Moon's Tear. Now, go back 
to the clock tower entrance and head left and up the ramp. Then, go left and 
straight through this area. Go up the ramp at the end and go left and through 
the doorway to the right into North Clock Town. There, go up the path and 
talk to the kid in green clothes. He'll introduce himself as Tingle, and then 
he'll ask if you want to buy any maps. For now, buy the Clock Town Map for 5 
rupees since that's probably all you can afford for now. Then, head to the 
left side of this area and go up the path, then into the cave, which is the 
Fairy's Fountain. Go up and you'll find that the Great Fairy isn't there. 
Enter the fountain and the many fairies will tell you to find the lost fairy 
in town and bring her back here. So, go back and exit this cave, then take 
the path back down and continue up to the other side of this area. Follow the 
path straight to the other side of town to reach East Clock Town. Here, go 
right and straight down the path to the middle area of this section of town. 
You should see the stray fairy floating around here, so go right to a Deku 
Flower. Dive in and launch yourself out, then fly towards the fairy to get 
it. It'll ask that you return it to the fairy shrine in North Clock Town. 
Now, go north and up the steps to the top, then go up and left into North 
Clock Town again. In this area, go across to the other end of this area and 
go up the path, then enter the fairy cave. Go up and into the fountain to 
return the missing fairy. You will then meet the Great Fairy. She'll thank 
you by giving you a magic meter, so you can use magic now. In this form, you 
can now shoot bubbles by pressing B! After the Great Fairy disappears, exit 
this cave.

Back in North Clock Town, go down towards the kid that keeps shooting at the 
balloon in the air. Use the bubble shooting technique and aim up to shoot 
down the balloon. After that, talk to the nearby kid and he'll tell you about 
his group's hideout leading to the observatory. You'll need a code, but you 
must ply a game of hide-and-seek first. Accept the challenge and 5 kids will 
appear, and you must find them all within 24 hours in the game to obtain the 
code. Start by going right and behind the giant slide, then chase down the 
kid to catch him. Then, go back towards the path leading to South Clock Town. 
Look to the right of that exit and catch that kid. Now, take the path back 
across this area and go to East Clock Town. Go right and up the steps to the 
middle part of this area to see another kid getting away with a chicken. Go 
up and drop down to the lower area, then give chase to that kid. Catch him, 
and then get to the middle of this area to the Deku Flower near the dancing 
men. Launch yourself out of the flower and onto a type of straw roof to find 
another kid. Chase him around until you catch him, then head all the way to 
the south part of this area. Go down the ramp to the right to enter South 
Clock Town. Here, go straight across the area and through the doorway to 
reach West Clock Town. In this area, go straight up and around the path to 
the top of the area. Go up to find the last kid, then quickly catch him. 
You'll then be warped back to North Clock Town where you started this whole 
thing. The kids won't let you in their group, but they will teach you the 
code, which is a randomly generated 5-digit number. Now, head to the right 
half of this area and enter East Clock Town. Go straight forward and talk to 
the kid standing there waving his arms, then enter the code for him. After he 
moves, go down the path to the next area.

When you enter this underground cave, go all the way down the path into the 
larger area. There, go up to the water and get to the right side of the 
platform. Then, hop across the water onto the next platform. Continue jumping 
from ledge to ledge until you reach the more shallow water that you can walk 
in. Now, go up the path and defeat the Skulltula that comes down from the 
ceiling. Defeat it, then continue up and right along the path to the next 
large room. Here, go up and aim upward towards the balloon floating in the 
air, then shoot a bubble at it to deflate it. Destroy the nearby pots for 
some rupees if needed, then climb up the ladder and go all the way down the 
hall to enter the next room. Go up and walk all the way up the rainbow-
colored stairs to the top. There, go around and talk to the man standing in 
the middle of the area. Look into the telescope and look at the top of the 
clock tower, then zoom in to see Skull Kid staring at you. The camera will 
scroll up and the moon will drop a tear on the ground, causing a loud noise. 
After this, go back and left, then go through the door to get outside. Go up 
and walk over the bluish tear to get the Moon's Tear. Now, go back into the 
observatory and head left all the way down the steps to the bottom in the 
previous room. Then, go up and left and down the long hallway to the 
following room. Drop down to the lower area and continue straight up the 
steps in front of you, then go up and left along the dry path to the end. 
There, go right and hop across the water from ledge to ledge to the other 
side. Then, head up and left along the path to exit this cave and enter East 
Clock Town.

Here, go up the path and head left and south to the end of this area. Then, 
go right down the ramp at the end to enter South Clock Town. When you get 
here, go up and right towards the Clock Tower. Before you get there, go left 
to the golden Deku Scrub again. Talk to it until you get the option to press 
the Start button and select an item. Select the Moon's Tear and assign it to 
a C button, then exit this menu and press that button to give it to the Deku. 
It'll give you the Land Title Deed for its Deku Flower, then pack up and fly 
away. Now, since there really isn't much left for you to do, I'd say just 
wander around until 12AM of the Final day. At that point, the door to the 
Clock Tower will open (Tatl will also remind you about this). When the FMV 
starts and the tower opens up, use the golden Deku Flower and launch yourself 
up, then fly towards the Clock Tower and land on the ledge above the door you 
came out of earlier in the game. When you enter this place, you'll meet Skull 
Kid again. After a little scuffle between the two fairies and Skull Kid, 
you'll have 5 minutes to defeat Skull Kid. Simply go up towards the center of 
this area and use Z-Targeting to aim at Skull Kid, then shoot a bubble at him 
to make him drop the Ocarina. Then, walk over to the Ocarina and pick it up. 
You will then enter a flashback of Princess Zelda giving you that Ocarina, 
and you'll learn the Song of Time in the process. After you return to the 
game, Tatl will complain about not having enough time to defeat Skull Kid. 
You'll also find that your bubbles are no longer effective. So, equip the 
Ocarina to a C button, then play the Song of Time. Choose yes and you'll be 
warped back to the 1st Day of the game, but with no Rupees, Deku Nuts, or 
that Land Title Deed.

When you arrive back in the 1st Day, Tatl will realize that everything 
started over again. She'll also remind you to visit the mask salesman since 
you have one of your most precious items returned to you. So, go up and enter 
the Clock Tower. Here, go talk to the Happy Mask Shop owner and he'll be very 
happy you have your most precious item back. He'll then teach you the Song of 
Healing and you'll regain your original form, as well as obtain the Deku 
Mask! The man will become upset that you didn't obtain his lost mask, and 
he'll tell you about Majora's Mask. After that, turn around and go up to exit 
the Clock Tower. Back in South Clock Town, Tatl will tell you that you should 
head to the swamp. For now, go left and up the ramp to find an owl statue. 
Hit it with your Sword since this is the first time you visited it. Press A 
and check it out after that, then choose to save your game and quit if you 
want to stop for now. Keep in mind that each time you want to save, just head 
to an owl statue and do this again. Now, go back down the ramp and go east 
and up the ramp to enter East Clock Town. Here, go up and left and up the 
steps to the north part of this area. Go up and right and talk to the kid 
guarding the underground cave from earlier. Use the code from earlier to make 
the kid move, then go down the path into this cave. Since there's nothing 
really to do in this place, just turn around and go back out to East Clock 
Town. Here, go up and a Bomber Kid will come and ask you how you knew the 
code. He'll realize you're really good and give you the Bombers' Notebook. 
After he leaves, go straight up and into North Clock Town. When you enter 
that area, go across the area to the western half, then go up the path and 
enter the cave. Go up and talk to the fairies to find that the stray Fairy is 
on the loose again. After that, go back and exit this cave.

Back in North Clock Town, go easy across this area and enter East Clock Town 
again. There, go right and down the ramp to the middle area. Here, assign the 
Deku Mask to a C button, and then use it to turn into Deku Link. Now, wait 
until it becomes night, then use the Deku Flower nearby and launch into the 
air. Fly back and touch the stray Fairy in the air to grab it. Now, land and 
take off the mask, then go north and west to North Clock Town. Go back across 
this area to the other side, then go up the path and enter the fairy cave 
again. Go up and the fairies will turn into the Great Fairy again. Talk to 
her to recover your health, then she'll tell you about the stray fairies in 
the four temples of the land. To help you catch those fairies, she gives you 
the Great Fairy Mask! Now, go back and exit this cave. Here, stick around in 
the area until about 12AM in the game (the day doesn't matter). At that 
point, an old woman will start walking along the path. Keep an eye on her 
until a weird man suddenly runs onscreen and steals the lady's bag. Chase him 
around this area and use the Sword to make him drop the luggage. After he 
runs away, the old lady will thank you for your help. She'll also give you 
the Blast Mask, and her information will be added to your notebook. Now, head 
south to South Clock Town, then head all the way to the south end of this 
area. Go up the ramp in the corner and take the path right and down to the 
Laundry Pool. There, go left and talk to the man with the music box (this 
only happens between 12AM and 6AM). Listen to his little confession, and then 
he'll give you the Bremen Mask. Now, go back up the path to South Clock Town. 
There, head north towards the clock tower. When you get there, go right and 
up the ramp, then through the door to East Clock Town.

When you enter this area, go left up the steps, then go up and right to the 
kid by the hideout entrance. Go down the path and enter this cave. Here, go 
up the path all the way to the large room. Go up to the water, then jump in 
and swim all the way left while staying against the wall. That way you'll 
miss the Skulltula that'll come down above you. At the end, get onto the left 
ledge and use the Blast Mask to blow open the hollow wall. Open the chest 
there to get 100 rupees on the spot! Now, get back in the water and swim back 
to the first platform. Go right onto the dry ledge and go straight up and out 
of this cave. Back in East Clock Town (make sure it's around 10AM on the 1st 
Day; you can use the Song of Time to warp back there), go right and up into 
the Mayor's Residence. Go up and talk to the guy talking to the secretary to 
hear his story. After his data is added to your notebook, go right and into 
that room. Go in and talk to the fat lady named Madame Aroma. Agree to help 
her find her son, Kafei, and she'll give you Kafei's Mask. Her data will also 
be added into your notebook. Now, leave this room and go all the way to the 
other end of this hall, then enter that room. Go up and talk to the mayor to 
hear a conversation between him and some visitors. After that, you'll have 
the Mayor's data added to your notebook. Next, leave this room and go right, 
then down and out of this building. Head south down the ramp and go right 
into the Stock Pot Inn.

Here, wait until 2PM, then put on Kafei's Mask and talk to Anju, the 
innkeeper. She'll realize you're looking for Kafei as well. After the postman 
comes in, drops off a letter, then leaves, talk to Anju again without the 
mask and she'll ask to meet her at 11:30PM (First Day) in the inn kitchen. 
Her information will also be added to your notebook. Now, leave this place 
and do whatever until it's about 11PM, then use the Deku Mask and turn into 
Deku Link. Use the Deku Flower in East Clock Town and fly onto the roof where 
you found that Bomber Kid earlier. Turn back into regular Link, then go up 
and open the door to secretly enter Stock Pot Inn. Go down the steps to the 
left, then go around and back to the kitchen. When Anju shows up, talk to her 
and she'll ask for you to mail her letter to Kafei. Agree and she'll give you 
the letter, and a promise will be added to your notebook as a reminder. Leave 
the kitchen after Anju does, then go down the hall and up the steps to the 
upper floor. Enter the first door to get outside again. There, drop down to 
the lower area and go up to the postbox (triangular-shaped boxes throughout 
Clock Town) and mail the letter to Kafei. Now, head to West Clock Town and 
enter the Bomb Shop (read the walls next to each door to find it). Buy a Bomb 
Bag with the rupees you should've been saving up all this time. It'll also 
come with 20 Bombs free! Exit the shop and take care of whatever you want 
until 3:30PM on the 2nd Day. At that point, go to South Clock Town and make 
your way to the southwest corner of that area. Go up the ramp and follow the 
path right to the Laundry Pool. Here, go up and left onto the bridge where 
the postman and a kid with a Keaton Mask are standing. After the postman 
leaves, follow the kid along the path and into the building, which is the 
back room of the Curiosity Shop. Follow the kid up the steps to the top, then 
talk to him and keep a secret to hear that he's Kafei. After hearing his 
story, he'll give you the Pendant of Memories for Anju. After this is added 
to the notebook, go back down the steps and out of this place.

Back outside, follow the path up and across the bridge, then down and into 
South Clock Town. Head north to the clock tower, then go right up the ramp 
and into East Clock Town. Here, go up and left into Stock Pot Inn. Talk to 
Anju, then when you have the option to do so, assign the Pendant of Memories 
to the C button, then press that button and give it to her. She'll become 
happy and that will be added to your notebook. Now, exit the inn and play the 
Song of Double Time to warp ahead to the Dawn of the Final Day. Now, wander 
around and wait until the afternoon (around 3:00PM again) and go down to 
Laundry Pool again. Go up across the bridge, then follow the path right and 
enter the building. Go all the way up the steps and talk to the Curiosity 
Shop owner to hear about what happened with Kafei. He'll also give you the 
Keaton Mask, as well as express mail you must bring to Madame Aroma quickly. 
After this guy tells you about the thief, Sakon, go down and out of this 
building. Now, wait until it becomes night on the Final Day, then go north 
and west into West Clock Town. Enter the post office and talk to the postman, 
then give him the Special Letter. After he agrees to deliver the letter, 
follow him out of the building. Next, follow him all the way to East Clock 
Town, where he'll enter the Milk Bar Latte to deliver the letter to Madame 
Aroma. After he comes back outside, talk to him to get the Postman's Hat 
(listed under the Masks section). Now, use the Song of Time to warp back to 
the First Day. When you get there, play the Inverted Song of Time to slow 
down time for you. Then, head south towards the exit of Clock Town. Talk to 
the guard and he'll move since you have a sword, then continue out to Termina 
Field.

Termina Field
-------------

Here's the large area surrounding Clock Town, which is full of enemies and 
links the four regions together. Time also passes out here, but you can make 
it go slower if needed by playing the Inverted Song of Time. I will not be 
telling you when to play the Song of Time to start at the 1st Day again, 
since I don't know exactly what day it is in your game. I'll leave that up to 
you, but when you play it, you'll warp back to South Clock Town. Anyway, 
start by wandering around the field area for a while to get used to things. 
Defeat some nearby enemies and cut down bushes to get some rupees, bombs, 
etc. When it becomes night, head north of Clock Town towards the snowy 
region. You'll find several mushroom-shaped pillars in this area. At 12AM on 
any night, you'll find a man atop one of them. From the higher ledge, jump 
onto the top of that mushroom and talk to the guy, whose name is Kamaro. 
Listen to his sad story and he will be added to your notebook. After that, 
play the Song of Healing and he'll teach you his dance by giving you Kamaro's 
Mask! After he disappears and additional information is entered into your 
notebook, drop down to the snowy area. Now, head west and south through the 
snowy area, then through the beach area. Continue through to the grassy area 
and go to the southwest corner of the map. Get through this forest area and 
go down to the southwest corner, where you'll find a path leading to a new 
area. The sign will say that it's Milk Road and Romani Ranch is up ahead, so 
go up to enter Milk Road.

Milk Road
---------

When you enter this area, go up the path past the first past leading to the 
left. Continue up to the second path leading left to a gate, then look up to 
find Tingle floating high above from a balloon. Use the Deku Mask to become 
Deku Link, then shoot a bubble at it to make Tingle come down. Buy the Romani 
Ranch map from him, then take off the Deku Mask. Now, head up the path to 
find a giant boulder blocking the way. Talk to the man hammering at it to 
find out someone blocked the way to Romani Ranch with it, so you'll have to 
come back later. Now, go back down the path until you reach the owl statue 
and a few bushes to the right. From there, take the path right to the next 
area, which is Gorman Track.

Gorman Track
------------

Here, go up and talk to the Gorman Brothers. One will have a rude attitude, 
while the other will try to sell you milk. They'll also be added to your 
notebook. Now, go back and exit this area to get back to Milk Road.

Milk Road
---------

Back on Milk Road, use the owl statue to save if you want. Then, play the 
Song of Double Time until you reach the dawn of the Final Day. At that point, 
head left up the path and the boulder will finally be removed. So, continue 
up the path to enter Romani Ranch.

Romani Ranch
------------

When you enter this area, follow the dirt path up to where it splits. At that 
point, go right towards the buildings and Tatl will point out Epona in the 
stable. Link will then run to Epona for a moment. Now, go back down the path 
to where it split again and take the left path this time. Continue all the 
way to the end and you'll see a building in front of you, and another one to 
the right. Go right and enter the Cucco Shack. There, go right and down into 
the field. Continue straight up through the field to a tree and talk to the 
skinny guy sitting there named Grog. He'll be upset since he won't be able to 
see his chickens grow to be roosters. After his information is added to the 
notebook, assign and put on the Bremen Mask. Now, press and hold B to march, 
then march all around the field. There are 10 small chickens total, so march 
near one to get it to follow you. After all of them are following you, 
they'll all turn into roosters. After that, Grog will reward you by giving 
you the Bunny Hood. After this, go back out of this field area and go through 
the door to the main ranch area. Follow the path all the way east since 
there's nothing else to do here, except leave the ranch.

Milk Road
---------

When you get back here, continue east along the path through Milk Road until 
you exit to Termina Field. (You may have to play the Song of Time so you'll 
be back in the 1st Day, so you'll have more time to do things. If you warped 
with the Song of Time, go through the south exit of Clock Town to enter 
Termina Field.)

Termina Field
-------------

When you get back here, head directly south of Clock Town into the forest 
area. Go up towards the golden tree and Tatl will notice a drawing on it. 
She'll tell you it was a picture her and Tale drew with Skull Kid. Watch the 
following FMV about Tatl and Tale meeting Skull Kid, then how they used to 
hang out with him. After that's all over, continue left around the tree and 
down the path to the road leading to the Southern Swamp.

Road to Southern Swamp
----------------------

Here, go up the path to the middle of this area. Defeat the Bad Bats and the 
differently colored Chuchu enemies here as well. When you reach the area 
where the path splits, take the right path and use the Deku Mask to turn into 
Deku Link. Look up and shoot a bubble at the red balloon to make Tingle come 
down. Buy the Woodfall Map from him, then continue down the path to the 
Southern Swamp.

Southern Swamp
--------------

When you enter this area, head to the right along the dry land. Strike the 
owl statue with your sword and save/quit if you want. Then, go back to the 
left half of the dry land area. Go into the swampy water and follow the path 
of lily pads to the next area of dry land. Follow the path up and around to 
the Magic Hags' Potion Shop. Go up to the shop, then climb the ladder and 
enter the shop. Talk to Kotake (the old hag that's here) and she'll tell you 
that her sister, Koume, is lost in the Woods of Mystery. She'll ask you to go 
look for her and ask the monkeys there for help. You don't have bottles yet, 
so you can't buy potions, so leave the shop and get back down to the ground. 
Now, go around and behind the shop, then continue up into the cave.

Woods of Mystery
----------------

When you enter this area, go up and talk to the monkey and it'll ask for you 
to follow it. Follow it through the different parts of this forest (follow it 
very closely since it might try to trick you into going to the wrong place) 
until you reach Koume at the end. She'll be lying on the floor asking for 
your help. So, take any of the paths with signs in front of them to get back 
to the swamp area.

Southern Swamp
--------------

Here, go up and through the water to the middle area. Walk around to the 
front and climb up the ladder, then enter the potion shop again. Talk to 
Kotake and she'll give you a Bottle with a Red Potion inside to help save 
Koume. Now, leave the shop and go back around and into the Woods of Mystery.

Woods of Mystery
----------------

Back in this area, talk to the monkey and follow it through the forest again 
while avoiding the enemies along the way for now. When you reach Koume, talk 
to her and assign the potion to a C button, then give it to her. She'll 
recover and fly away, leaving you with an Empty Bottle. Now, take any path 
out of this area back to the Southern Swamp.

Southern Swamp
--------------

When you reenter this area, get across to the other side of this area, then 
follow the path through the area. At the end, swim through the water while 
following the lily pads to reach the dry land again. Go around and up into 
the Swamp Tourist Center. Go to the booth to the right and talk to Koume for 
a free Boat Cruise ride. She'll also give you a Pictograph Box, which you can 
use to take pictures. When you get on the boat, just enjoy the ride until you 
hit the Octorok in your way, then you'll continue to the next area. When the 
boat stops at the dock in front of Deku Palace, choose to disembark, then 
jump onto the dock. Put on the Deku Mask and become Deku Link, then follow 
the monkey up and into the Deku Palace.

Deku Palace
-----------

When you enter this place, go up across the bridge to the other side. As Deku 
Link, talk to the guards in your way and they'll let you pass. Now, go 
straight down the hall and enter the room at the end, which is the Royal 
Chamber. Here, go up around the fire and jump up to the higher platform. Talk 
to the Deku King and he'll tell you that they're going to punish the monkey 
that kidnapped the Deku Princess. Go left to the fenced-off area and talk to 
the monkey through the cage. It'll tell you that it really didn't kidnap the 
princess. Now, go back down and out of this room. Talk to the monkey outside 
blocking your path and it'll tell you about a secret route to rescue the 
imprisoned one. After it leaves, go down the hallway a little bit and enter 
the room to the left. When you enter this room, the camera will switch to an 
overhead view of this maze. There are two guards walking around in this room 
and if they see you, you'll be kicked out of the palace. You can see their 
line of sight by looking at the white dots in front of each guard. Make your 
way to the first boulder without being seen, then hide behind it until the 
first guard walks around to the other side of it. Follow the path down to the 
next boulder and hide behind there. When it's safe, continue up the path and 
avoid the third guard. After that, collect the rupees at the end and enter 
the next part of this room. Go left and up and stand behind the boulder when 
the guard is in front of it. Wait until it walks around the boulder, then 
quickly go down the path and wait for the second guard to walk to the right. 
At that point, go up and stand behind the square barrier. When the guard 
walks around it, go around the other way and drop down the hole to the right. 
Here, go left up the hill and talk to the man to get a free sample of Magic 
Beans. Now, go back down the hill and go left to the water. Use the bottle to 
get some spring water, then assign the bean to a C button and plant it in the 
soft soil patch as regular Link. Then, use the Spring Water to water the 
plant and it'll grow to a giant platform.

Ride it up to a high ledge and open the chest there to get 20 rupees. Then, 
get back down to the ground and fill the bottle with Spring Water. Next, go 
up the hill and buy some more of the Magic Beans for later. Then, go back 
down the hill and get out of this cave. Now, go back left and down through 
this area while avoiding being seen by the guards. Get back to the previous 
section of this room and get through this area without being seen. When you 
reach the end, exit the room and go left to the entrance of the palace. Start 
to go across the bridge, then hop to the left across to the lily pad. Hop 
across the lily pads around to the right side of the palace. When you reach 
the ledge there, go up and take off the Deku Mask. Now, plant the Magic Bean 
in the soft soil there, then water it using the Spring Water in a bottle. 
After that, ride the giant platform up to the top of the palace wall. Jump 
onto the ledge there and follow the path around to the end. Drop down to the 
ledge below and use the Deku Mask to become Deku Link again. Go up and dive 
into the Deku Flower, then launch out of it. Fly up and land on the moving 
platform with the next Deku Flower. While on this platform, shoot a bubble at 
the Deku Scrub on the left ledge to kill it. Now, dive into and launch from 
the Deku Flower and fly to that ledge. There, dive into the next Deku Flower 
and before you launch, look across the wall in front of you. When the next 
moving platform with the Deku Flower is visible, launch up and fly onto that 
platform. Shoot the Deku Scrub with a bubble, then fly to that ledge. Use 
that Deku Flower and fly to the following ledge in the corner, then follow 
the path across to the next room at the other side. There, shoot the Deku 
Scrub shooting at you, then use the Deku Flower and fly to that ledge. Fly 
onto the moving platform up ahead and shoot a bubble at the Deku Scrub on the 
other side of the wall. Then, fly over to that ledge and dive into the Deku 
Flower there. Wait for the next moving platform to come closer, then fly over 
to it.

Ride the next platform right and up to its highest point, then turn around 
and launch from the Deku Flower and fly to the higher ledge. There, enter the 
cave to the left to enter the Deku King's room again. Drop down to the ground 
and talk to the tied up monkey as regular Link. It'll be happy to see you, 
then it'll ask for you to cut it loose. Use your sword a couple times to try 
and the monkey will ask if you have a loud instrument. Turn into Deku Link 
and pull out the Ocarina (Deku Pipes when you're Deku Link). The monkey will 
then teach you the Sonata of Awakening. After that, the Deku King will notice 
you and have you thrown out of the palace. The monkey will then tell you to 
enter the Woodfall Temple the same way the Deku people do. Back outside, go 
across the bridge to the middle and hop left onto the first lily pad. This 
time, hop onto the lily pad to the right, then onto the ledge at the end. Use 
the Deku Flower there and fly onto the higher ledge, then go up to enter the 
Southern Swamp.

Southern Swamp
--------------

Back in this area, go up and defeat the Dragonflies that will appear, then 
use the Deku Flower and fly to the following red platform. Use the Deku 
Flower there to fly to the next platform, then use that Deku Flower to fly 
onto the fallen tree. From there, walk onto the next platform and use the 
Deku Flower there to fly left onto the next ledge. Upon landing, the owl from 
the previous Zelda game will appear. It'll tell you about the owl statues, 
then ask you to learn the song on the stone it is sitting on. After it flies 
away, check out the stone to learn the Song of Soaring. After that, use the 
Deku Flower and fly to the ledge on the other side of the waterfall. There, 
go into the cave to enter the Woodfall area.

Woodfall
--------

When you enter this new area, go right and hop across the water to the lily 
pad. From there, hop across to the next platform. Go up the path and defeat 
the Hiploops along the way. Defeat the Deku Scrub at the end and use its Deku 
Flower to the next ledge down and to the right. Defeat the Deku Scrub when 
you land and walk left across the plank to the other end. Defeat another Deku 
Scrub and use the Deku Flower to fly up to another platform. When you land, 
Tatl will point out a Deku Scrub symbol on the floor and assume they 
worshipped there. Turn into regular Link and strike the owl statue with your 
Sword, then save your game if you want. Otherwise, turn into Deku Link and 
use the Deku Flower to fly to the ledge in the distance. When you land, 
defeat the Deku Scrub and use its flower to fly down to the platform below. 
Go left up the path and defeat the Hiploop, then defeat the Deku Scrub and 
fly to the next ledge. Defeat another Deku Scrub and use the Deku Flower to 
get to the following ledge, then go down the path to the other side. Defeat 
yet another Deku Scrub and open the chest to get a Heart Piece. Now, use the 
Deku Flower and fly left to a small ledge. Open that chest to get 20 rupees, 
then hop across the water to the lily pad nearby. From there, hop onto the 
ledge at the beginning of this area. Now, play the Song of Soaring and fly to 
the owl statue at Woodfall. You'll land on the platform with the Deku Scrub 
symbol and the owl statue (this saves you time, unless you want to make your 
way through this area to reach this point again). Here, stand on the symbol 
and play the Sonata of Awakening, which will cause the giant Woodfall Temple 
to rise out of the water in the middle of this area. Now, use the Deku Flower 
and fly across to the temple (you'll have just enough time in the air to make 
it across). When you land, go up and enter the Woodfall Temple.

Woodfall Temple
---------------

When you enter this first big dungeon, there are a couple things I should 
point out. First, there are dungeon items (Maps, Compass, Boss Key) that 
you'll find along the way, as well as a new item for your inventory. Also, 
there are 15 Stray Fairies floating around in each dungeon, and I'll list how 
to get them as I go along in the walkthrough for this place. Anyway, go up to 
the gray part of the platform. Take off the Deku Mask and put on the Great 
Fairy Mask to make the Stray Fairy in front of you come to you. You'll then 
have your first Stray Fairy for this level! Become Deku Link again and use 
the Deku Flower to fly across to the ledge to the right, just around the tall 
column. Open the chest to make a Stray Fairy come out, then grab it when it 
comes near. Now, use the Deku Flower and fly up to the next ledge. From 
there, use that Deku Flower and fly to the platform at the other side of the 
room. Avoid the Skulltula and go through the door to enter the next room. 
Here, go left and down the path to the bottom. Then, defeat the Deku Baba and 
grab the third Stray Fairy. Next, hop right across the water onto the giant 
flower-type thing in the water. Go across it and hop across the water to the 
next one. Continue that until you reach the platform at the end. Before going 
to the next room, go right and hop across the water to a platform full of 
pots. Destroy the pots and grab the fourth Stray Fairy you find. Now, hop 
back to the previous ledge and go into the next room. In this room, go up and 
bounce across the water to the Deku Flower in the middle. Use it and fly to 
the left to the higher ledge. Open the chest there to get a Small Key, then 
bounce back to the Deku Flower. Now, go to the other side of the room, then 
enter the following room. Become regular Link here and use the Blast Mask or 
Bombs to flip over the Snappers, then finish them with your Sword. Defeat all 
3 of them to make a chest appear. Open the chest to get the Map. Now, turn 
into Deku Link and go back to the previous room. Here, hop up across to the 
middle platform. Continue across to the other side and enter the next room.

Back in this room, go up and bounce onto the first giant flower. Bounce left 
and up across them to the next platform, then use the Small Key and open the 
door to reach the new room. Here, go up and push the gray block straight 
ahead, then take the path to the right. Defeat the Skulltula at the end and 
take the Stray Fairy it leaves behind. Now, continue up and left along the 
path to get to the other side of the block. Push the block up a couple times 
to get it out of your way. Now, go back to where you defeated the Skulltula 
and become regular Link. Take out a Deku Stick and light it with the torch, 
then go back along the path and go right to an unlit torch. Light it to open 
the locked door, then go into the next room. Here, defeat the two Dragonflies 
to unlock the door, as well as make a chest appear. Open the chest to get the 
Compass. Now, go through the door and back to the previous room. There, go up 
and push the block forward, then turn into Deku Link and look straight up. 
You'll find a beehive hanging from the ceiling, so shoot it with a bubble to 
make it fall, dropping a Stray Fairy. Go right onto the platform that isn't 
fenced off and wear the Great Fairy Mask to lure the fairy towards you so you 
can get another Stray Fairy. Then, go through the door to the right to the 
next room. Here, just go back through the door to the previous room to reset 
the gray block. Go up and push the block forward, then go left to the torch 
by the other doorway. Turn into regular Link and light a Deku Stick with the 
torch. Then, go right and up the path to the upper floor and light the unlit 
torch there. Now, put the Deku Stick away to avoid having to waste an entire 
stick. Now, pull out a stick again and use the newly lit torch to light it. 
Now, jump right over the gap to the next platform, then left to the following 
one. Go up and use your Deku Stick torch to burn down the cobweb. Now, go up 
and defeat the Deku Baba when it stands tall to get more Deku Sticks. Then, 
go down the hallway and head up the steps at the other end to a darker room.

In this dark room, go up the hall and defeat the Black Boes that come your 
way. When you get to the larger room, walk all around and defeat several more 
Black Boes. After you kill them all, a chest will appear in the room. Go and 
open the chest behind the torch to get the 7th Stray Fairy. Now, light a Deku 
Stick using the torch in the center of the room, then go around and light the 
four unlit torches around this room. After you light them all, the door in 
the east side of this room will open for you. So, go right and through the 
door into the next room. Here, turn into Deku Link and dive into the Deku 
Flower. Wait for the first moving platform to get towards the center of this 
room, then launch out and fly up to land on it. Try and shoot down the 
Dragonflies with bubbles, then use the next Deku Flower and fly to the next 
moving platform when you get close to it. Get to the platform in the upper-
right corner of the room, then go down the steps to the first floor again. 
There, go right and you'll see a Stray Fairy trapped within a bubble. Attack 
the bubble to destroy it and grab the 8th Stray Fairy. Then, go back towards 
the entrance of this room and go right to find a switch. Become regular Link 
and step on it to make some ladders appear to the lower part of this room. 
Now, go back around to where you collected Stray Fairy #8. Turn back into 
Deku Link and use the Deku Flower to fly to the upper-left corner of the room 
(the ledge with the unlit torch and a switch next to it). When you land, turn 
back into regular Link and hit the switch to make a chest appear. Now, drop 
down to the poisonous water below and bounce onto the platform by the door. 
Go straight up the path and open the chest at the top to get the 9th Stray 
Fairy. Then, go up and drop down to the water below and bounce onto the 
platform with all the pots. From there, bounce left onto the next platform 
and climb the ladders to reach the upper area. Now, just go through the door 
in front of you to enter the next room. In this room, go right and down along 
the path to the end, then go into the following room.

Here, you'll enter battle against the Dinofols mini-boss, so read the Mini-
Bosses section for some help on beating it. After that, the door will open 
and a chest will appear in the room. Open this chest and you'll finally 
obtain the Hero's Bow! It comes automatically equipped with 30 arrows and the 
regular Quiver as well. Now, go back and exit this room and go left, then up 
along the path to the end. There, take out your bow and arrows and shoot the 
yellow eye on the ledge up and to the right. Hitting it will cause a platform 
with a Deku Flower to start moving up and down. Go back to the Deku Flower at 
the entrance to this room, then turn into Deku Link. Launch yourself from 
that flower and fly onto that platform in the middle of the room. From there, 
use the Deku Flower there to fly to the ledge at the other side, then enter 
the next room. Here, you'll fight the Gekko mini-boss, so read the Mini-
Bosses section once again for help on defeating it. After you beat it and the 
doors unlock, go up into the north part of this room. Open the chest to get 
the Boss Key for this dungeon. Then, go back through the door into the main 
room and across the room. Go through the door at the other side to reach the 
next room. There, go up and use the Deku Flower (turn into Deku Link if 
you're not already) to fly to the ledge up and to the right. Once there, turn 
around and become regular Link again, then look to the left of the north 
door. Shoot the beehive in the mouth of the wall panel to knock the hive 
down, revealing a Stray Fairy. Put on the Great Fairy Mask and that fairy 
will come to you, then you'll have the 10th Stray Fairy in this level. Next, 
go through the door to the left and enter the next room. In this room, go up 
to the edge of the platform and look down towards the center of the room 
below. Shoot an arrow at the torch in that middle flower-type thing and it'll 
raise from the water and clear out the poisonous water. Now, go right and up 
the path to find a Deku Flower, then become Deku Link and fly onto the 
rotating center platform.
There, you're going to have to perform something that's a real pain to do. 
You'll notice there is an unlit torch in the upper-left corner of this room. 
Stand towards the middle of this platform and aim an arrow just above the 
torch. When the flame passes in front of you, shoot the arrow through the 
flame, hopefully lighting that torch. If you're successful, the door to the 
north will become unlocked. to the outer part of this platform and jump to 
the north ledge when you pass by it. Then, go around to the east side of the 
room and climb down the ladder to the lower area. Then, become Deku Link and 
bounce up across the flower-like platforms to the west side of the room. 
There, go up and into the next room, then become regular Link again. Go left 
and up into the water, then swim up and right between the barriers to the 
center area by the trapped fairy. Just touch the bubble and it'll pop, giving 
you the 11th Stray Fairy. Now, get back around and onto the east ledge and go 
back to the previous room. Go up and swim across to the other side, then 
climb up the ladder to reach the higher area. There, go around the path to 
the north door and just go up into the next room. Here, go up and climb down 
the ladder to the lower part of this room. Turn into Deku Link and use the 
Deku Flower to fly right onto the higher ledge along the south side of this 
room. Destroy the bubble and collect the 12th Stray Fairy inside. Use the 
Deku Flower and fly onto the higher ledge, then from there, fly up to the 
following ledge. Destroy the bubble that's trapping the fairy, then grab the 
13th Stray Fairy. Now, go right and drop down to the bottom ledge at the 
bottom of the ladder. Use the Deku Flower and fly to the ledge on the other 
side of the room. Fly from ledge to ledge until you reach the ledge with the 
trapped fairy on it. Destroy that bubble and you'll have the 14th Stray 
Fairy. Now, use the Deku Flower and fly to the top of the platform to the 
left. Defeat the Skulltula that comes down in the middle, as well as any 
nearby Dragonflies.

Now, look to the right to find a fairy trapped in a bubble near the flame. 
Shoot the bubble with a bubble attack from Deku Link, then become regular 
Link and use the Great Fairy Mask to grab the 15th and final Stray Fairy! 
After that, drop down to the water below and swim to the middle platform with 
a Deku Flower on it. Become Deku Link and use the Deku Flower there to reach 
the higher ledge, then collect the rupees there (20 total). Next, drop down 
to the lower platform and use the Deku Flower to fly to the south ledge. From 
there, use that Deku Flower and fly to the left (towards the right on your 
map) onto the higher alcove. Use the next Deku Flower to reach the next 
ledge, then become regular Link again and look north to a crystal switch. 
Shoot it with an arrow to make all the flames disappear from the room for a 
limited time. Now, use the Deku Flower and fly up towards the crystal switch, 
but land on that column that used to have the flame on it. Use the Deku 
Flower you find there to fly right onto the roof of that little platform with 
the crystal switch. Now, use this Deku Flower and fly north onto the ledge by 
the door. Open the door with the Boss Key and enter this next room. Walk up a 
small bit and you'll see the scene of the boss lowering down from the ceiling 
to the ground. When he lands, you'll enter battle against the Masked Jungle 
Warrior, Odolwa. Read the Bosses section for help on defeating him. After you 
win, collect the Heart Container and step into the blue light to get Odolwa's 
Remains. After the mask leaves, watch the FMV to learn the Oath to Order 
song.

After you return to the game, Tatl will tell you to head to the mountains for 
the next area of the game. Now, go up and cut through the vines in the way 
and enter that room to free the Deku Princess. When she's done talking, 
assign the empty bottle to a C button and use it to contain the princess 
inside to take her to Deku Palace. Now, go back up and out of the temple 
completely.

Woodfall
--------

When you end up here again, you'll notice there's now a path leading straight 
to the exit of Woodfall. Instead of taking that path, play the Song of 
Soaring and fly to the Woodfall owl. When you land, become Deku Link and use 
the Deku Flower to fly east to the next ledge. Use the Deku Flower there and 
fly into the cave carved in the wall. In that cave, go up and into the 
fountain to let the 15 Stray Fairies from the temple loose. The Great Fairy 
will then appear and grant you a stronger spinning sword attack. After that, 
go back and exit this cave. Back outside, become regular Link and jump into 
the water below. Swim all the way to the north end by the exit of Woodfall, 
then go up and into the Southern Swamp again.

Southern Swamp
--------------

Here, go down and drop down to the water below (it's no longer poisonous). 
Swim up to the dock and use the Deku Mask to become Deku Link again, then go 
up to enter the Deku Palace.

Deku Palace
-----------

Back in this palace, go up across the bridge and talk to the guards in your 
way. After they let you in, go straight up the hall and enter the Royal 
Chamber. You'll be just in time to see the Deku people punishing the 
imprisoned monkey. Go around and up to where the Deku King is sitting, then 
empty the bottle in front of him. The princess will come out and clobber the 
king, then order the monkey be freed that instant. After the apologies are 
said and done, the monkey will tell you that a butler is outside of the 
palace in a shrine to the right. Now, go back and exit this room, then 
continue down the hallway past the guards. Go up the bridge a little bit, 
then become Deku Link if you're not already and hop right onto the lily pad. 
Hop across the lily pads all the way into the Deku Shrine at the west side of 
the palace. In the shrine, go up and talk to the butler. He'll tell you that 
there's something the Deku people want to give you, and he'll lead you to it. 
Now, become regular Link and put on the Bunny Hood, then closely follow him 
through this cavern. Follow closely and be quick as you navigate through this 
hellish maze. Try not to fall into a pit because you'll have to start from 
the beginning if you do. When you finally reach the end of this all, talk to 
the butler again to receive the Mask of Scents. Then, step into the blue 
light to get back outside. Now, become Deku Link and hop across those lily 
pads all the way to the bridge again. There, go south and exit the Deku 
Palace area completely.

Southern Swamp
--------------

When you arrive outside of Deku Palace again, jump in the water as regular 
Link and swim north. Get onto an island a bit north of the palace, then light 
up a Deku Stich using the torch on the island. Use it to burn down the web 
covering the door, then enter the building. Go up and a weird Skulltula kid 
will come down from the ceiling. Talk to it and it'll ask for you to enter 
the house and defeat all the Gold Skulltulas, then come back for a reward. So 
go through the door to enter the Swamp Spider House. Please read the Spider 
House section of this guide for help on getting all the Skulltulas, as well 
as what you should have before entering this house. After you defeat them 
all, talk to that spider kid again to get the Mask of Truth. Now, exit the 
house and play the Song of Soaring, then fly to the owl at the Southern Swamp 
(this is a shortcut to save you some time). When you get there, take the 
north path out of the Southern Swamp.

Road to Southern Swamp
----------------------

Back on the path between the swamp and Termina Field, head south towards the 
middle of this area. There, continue south all the way out to Termina Field 
again.

Termina Field
-------------

Back in Termina Field, head north through the forest-type area again as if 
you're going into Clock Town. Instead, head around the outer perimeter of 
Clock Town while going north. When you reach the north section of Termina 
Field, you'll notice that there's snow on the ground and that you're near the 
Snowhead area. Go north and drop down to the lower area, then continue up and 
left. Then, go up the ramp and follow the path to a blockade of solid ice, 
which will temporarily freeze you if you touch it. Aim up with your Hero's 
Bow and shoot the ice chunk hanging above until it falls, clearing the way. 
After that, just continue along to the road leading to the Mountain Village.

Road to Mountain Village
------------------------

When you enter this snowy area, go up the path and defeat the Blue Tektites 
along the way. You might want to bomb the giant snowballs along the way to 
find more enemies or even an item or two. Continue along the path until you 
reach the point where the path is blocked by snowballs. Bomb the barrier, 
then go north and up the ledges to the top. Follow the path up and around 
into the Mountain Village.

Mountain Village
----------------

Upon entering this frozen and snow-covered village, head north and you'll 
find a Goron standing on a high ledge to the left. He'll tell you that he 
wants something tough to eat before he starves, but you can't fix that just 
yet. Continue up to find an owl statue, so hit it with your sword to activate 
it. Then, head east past the Mountain Smithy's building, and follow the path 
to the Twin Islands.

Twin Islands
------------

Here, go up the path and defeat the Blue Tektite. Continue up and across the 
bridge, then defeat the White Wolfos at the other side. After that, continue 
across the next bridge and look up to find Tingle hanging from that red 
balloon. Shoot it down with an arrow and buy the Snowhead map from him. Now, 
follow the path up some more and across the bridge, then go up into the Goron 
Village.

Goron Village
-------------

When you enter this frozen village, go up the path and talk to the Goron in 
the path. Have him open the door to the Goron Shrine, then go right and drop 
down to the lower area. From there, quickly enter the open room, which is the 
Goron Shrine. Here, go left and up the path all the way to the top of this 
area. Talk to the Goron standing next to the door to hear that the Elder 
Goron is gone, and his baby won't stop crying! Enter the room and try talking 
to the baby and it'll call out for its father. So, go back down the path and 
exit this shrine. Back outside, go left and follow the path along the left 
wall to the top. There, go left and around the path past the Goron guard, 
then continue up across the wooden bridge. Go up a bit more and you'll see 
the owl on a high perch. Go up and drop down to the lower area, then go up 
towards the owl and it'll talk to you. Tell it you'll proceed, then it'll 
start to fly over the large gap towards the easy, dropping feathers along the 
way. Don't worry about not seeing the platforms. Just jump across the gap by 
following the path of the feathers. When you reach the other side, go up and 
enter the cave. In this cave, go up and open the chest to get the Lens of 
Truth! Now, cut down the bushes to get bombs and use one to destroy the 
boulder to the left. Open the chest you find to get 50 rupees. Next, go back 
and exit this cave. Back outside, use the Lens of Truth and you'll be able to 
see all those invisible platforms. Jump across them all to the other side, 
then look a little to the left to find the ghost of a Goron in front of you 
(you can only see it with the lens). Talk to it and use the Bunny Hood to 
follow it all around this area. When it stops at the entrance to the area, go 
up to it and it'll head right to the Twin Islands, and you should follow it 
there.

Twin Islands
------------

Here, go up across the bridge and use the Lens of Truth to see the ghost 
again. Avoid the White Wolfos and follow the ghost all the way across the 
bridges to the other side of this area. At the end, follow it into the 
Mountain Village.

Mountain Village
----------------

Back in the Mountain Village, go up and use the lens to see the ghost for the 
third time. Follow it up, then jump across the platforms in the water to the 
other side. Then, use the Lens of Truth to reveal ladders leading to the top 
of the cliff. Climb up the ladder to where it ends, then move right and 
continue going up. When the ladder ends again, move left and up some more. 
Move to the right and continue up to the top of the cliff. At the top, use 
the Lens of Truth and follow the ghost into the Goron Graveyard. There, use 
the lens again and go up to talk to the ghost. After listening to his sad 
story, play the Song of Healing with the Ocarina. The ghost will then be 
healed of his sorrows and you will gain the Goron Mask! After that, put on 
the Goron Mask to become a Goron and read the ghost, Darmani's, grave to 
learn how to do things as a Goron. Then, go behind the tombstone and pull it 
back to reveal a hole, which will fill the room with Hot Spring Water. Now, 
use a bottle and fill it with the hot water, then exit this cave. Go left and 
empty the bottle on the frozen Goron to thaw him out. After that, you'll hear 
them talk about how the great Darmani is supposedly still alive. After that, 
go back in the cave and fill the bottle again with more Hot Spring Water. 
Then, turn around and become regular Link again and exit this cave. Back 
outside, go up and jump off the ledge and land in the water below. Quickly 
swim to the ledge at the other side and get out, then go east along the path 
to reach the Twin Islands.

Twin Islands
------------

When you enter this area, go up along the path and across the first bridge. 
Avoid the Wolfos for now and continue across the next couple bridges to the 
platform with the large ice glacier. Use the hot water to melt it, revealing 
a hole in the ground. Drop down into the cave below, where you'll find 
another Hot Spring. Fill the bottle again with the Hot Spring Water, then 
exit this cave and drop down to the lower part of this area. Walk around past 
the snowballs until Tatl turns green and flies over one of them. Bomb that 
one to find the frozen Elder Goron. Then, use the Hot Spring Water to thaw 
him out. Become Goron Link and talk to the Elder and he won't believe you're 
Darmani. After that, he'll teach you the Lullaby Intro to help his son go to 
sleep. Now, get to the south part of this area and go up the ramp to the 
higher area. Then, go across the bridges and defeat the White Wolfos along 
the way. Continue up the bridges to the end, then enter the Goron Village.

Goron Village
-------------

Back in this village again, go up the path and talk to the Goron standing 
guard. After he opens the Goron Shrine below, go right and drop down to the 
lower area and enter the shrine. Go left and up the path all the way to the 
top, then go left into the Elder's room. Become Goron Link if you're not 
already and play the Lullaby Intro for the crying baby. The baby will then 
stop crying and teach you the rest of the song. You will learn the Goron 
Lullaby, which replaces the Lullaby Intro. Now that you learned this song, 
the baby will finally go to sleep, as well as the nearby Gorons. So, go back 
out of this room and continue down the path to exit this place. Back outside, 
go left and along the left wall all the way up the path. At the top, go right 
to the Twin Islands area.

Twin Islands
------------

Here, go straight down the bridge to the first platform. Defeat the White 
Wolfos and continue across the bridges, then defeat a second White Wolfos. 
Cross the last bridge and follow the path right and up to the Mountain 
Village.

Mountain Village
----------------

Back in the village, head straight across this area. When you're at the other 
side of this area, activate the owl statue with the sword and save/quit if 
you want. Otherwise, continue northwest along the path to reach the path 
leading to Snowhead.

Road to Snowhead
----------------

When you enter this long path to the Snowhead area, go up and defeat the 
Keese that you find. Then, go back towards the entrance to this area and turn 
into Goron Link. Curl up and start rolling up towards the path (the snow will 
slow you down until the spikes come out and you go faster). Roll really fast 
up the path and jump the ramp to the left across the large pit. At the other 
side, continue up the path while avoiding all the large snowballs being 
rolled down towards you. When you reach the end of the path, use a Goron 
punch to destroy the snowball in front of the ramp. Then, go back a little 
bit and roll to gain speed. After you gain the spikes, jump the ramp to the 
other side. There, continue up the path all the way into the Snowhead region.

Snowhead
--------

As soon as you enter this area, become regular Link again and activate the 
nearby owl statue. That way, you can use the Song of Soaring to fly to this 
statue as well as the others you've activated along the way. After that, 
become Goron Link and go up to the beginning of the path. Use the Lens of 
Truth to see a giant Goron up ahead preventing you from going up this path. 
So, play the Goron Lullaby and it'll fall asleep, then roll off the cliff. 
Now, go up the path and avoid the snowballs along the way. When you reach the 
more narrow section, punch any snowballs in your way and continue up to the 
end. Roll up the steep hill to reach the top of Snowhead, then defeat the two 
White Wolfos that appear. Then, go left and up the hill you come across. Roll 
up the hill at full power while cutting through the snowballs along the way. 
At the top, enter the cave to reach the Snowhead Temple.

Snowhead Temple
---------------

When you enter this icy temple, go up and defeat all the White Boes that 
appear. Then, destroy the icicles against the north wall and push the giant 
block forward until it falls into a ditch (as Goron Link). Then, go into the 
next room and defeat the White Wolfos. After that, go through the door to the 
right to enter the next room. There, go up and face the bridge, then curl up 
and roll in the snow to build power. Then, speed across the bridge and jump 
the gap to reach the other side. Now, become regular Link and jump across the 
gap to the north platform, then go up to the second floor. Here, go right and 
claim the first Stray Fairy in the open. Then, use the Hero's Bow and shoot 
the Real Bombchu enemy to defeat it from a distance. Next, go left and open 
the chest in the corner to get the Map. After that, go back down the steps to 
reach the first floor. There, jump back across the gap and go right into the 
next room. You'll see exactly how large this temple is as soon as you enter 
this room. Go up across the center of this room, then go through the only 
accessible door at the other side to reach the following room. Here, turn 
into Goron Link and pull the gray blocks back 3 times. Enter the hidden room 
and open the chest there to get a Key. Exit this small room and push the two 
blocks across the room all the way to the small ditch at the end. After you 
do that, a chest will appear on a high ledge. You can't claim this chest yet, 
so play the Song of Soaring to return to the entrance of this temple. Once 
you get there, go up and defeat the White Boes again. Punch through the 
icicles and walk into the next part of the room, then defeat the White Wolfos 
and use the Key to enter the room to the left. In this room, go up and defeat 
any White Wolfos that come out. Open the chest in the middle of the room to 
get the Compass. Now, go up to find a cracked wall, then become regular Link 
and bomb the wall. After that, back up and take out another bomb, then wait 
until it's about to explode. Move up and throw it up at the pillar to the 
right of the steps to reveal a Stray Fairy. Use the Great Fairy's Mask to 
claim it. Now, go up the steps to reach the second floor again.

There, look up and shoot down all the icicles and ice clusters on the ceiling 
to break all the ice blocks on the ledges. Then, jump onto the lowest ledge 
and jump to the following ledge. Look at the right wall and use the Lens of 
Truth to reveal a hidden room. Reach it by jumping to the next ledge, then 
right into that room. Open the chest to get the 3rd Stray Fairy, then go back 
out and onto that ledge again. Continue jumping across the ledges to the 
other side of the room. When you reach the last ledge before the platform at 
the other side, jump onto the higher ledge to the left. There, destroy the 
large snowball as Goron Link and open the chest you find to get a Key. Next, 
become regular Link and get down to the lower area, then go east and unlock 
the door to reach the next room. In this room, use the Lens of Truth and look 
up toward the ceiling to find a fairy trapped in a bubble. Shoot the bubble 
with an arrow, then use the Great Fairy's Mask to gain the 4th Stray Fairy. 
Then, go down to the lower part of this room and defeat all the White Boes. 
After that, go up the ramp to the higher section again and go up the path to 
find a switch. Become Goron Link and slam onto the switch (stand on the 
switch and curl up, then hold B) to make a couple platforms rise for you. 
Now, become regular Link again and jump left onto the ledge. Continue up and 
left to the next switch and crush it as Goron Link to make another switch 
rise in the middle of the room. Now, go back along the path to the high 
yellow platform you used to get here, then slam that one down. Now, quickly 
become regular Link and go right and jump onto the low platform nearby. From 
there, jump onto the higher ledge and go left through the door into the next 
room. As soon as you enter this room, become Goron Link and start rolling 
towards the center of this room. You'll pick up enough speed to jump the gap 
to the other side. There, go up and roll right along the wall to the east 
side of this room. Once there, stand in the snowy part of the platform and 
turn right toward the middle of the room. Roll up and gain enough power to 
jump this gap, then go through the door at the other side to reach the next 
room.

When you enter this room, you'll enter battle against the mini-boss called 
Wizrobe. Read that section for help on defeating it. After you beat it, a 
chest will appear in the middle of the room. Open it to gain the Fire Arrows! 
Then, play the Song of Soaring to return to the entrance of this temple. Once 
there, go up and defeat the White Boes, then cut through the icicles blocking 
the path. Go up and left through the door into the next room. Here, go up and 
you'll see a gray block to the left that's surrounded by ice. Use a Fire 
Arrow to melt it, then with your back to the room entrance, push it to the 
right. Then, go and push it towards the entrance of this room. After that, 
push it right across to the other side so you can climb onto it, then jump 
from it to the higher ledge. Now, go to the back of the room and use a Fire 
Arrow to melt the ice block to reveal a switch. Hit the switch to make a 
chest appear on that high ledge. Go back and climb onto the block and onto 
the ledge, then open the chest to get the 5th Stray Fairy. Now, get behind 
the block (your back should be to the entrance of this room) and push the 
block forward, right, and forward again. Climb onto the block and get onto 
the higher ledge, then go into the next room. There, go up and jump onto the 
stack of gray blocks from earlier. From there, jump across to the next ledge 
and avoid the pots that'll try to crash into you. Use your shield to block 
them, then go right and open the chest to get the 6th Stray Fairy. Then, play 
the Song of Soaring yet again and warp to the dungeon's entrance. Go up and 
cut through the icicles after beating the several White Boes again. Then, go 
up and defeat the White Wolfos and use a Fire Arrow to melt the ice block in 
front of the north door. After that, go up and into the next room. Here, go 
left all the way around to the door blocked by ice. Melt the use with a Fire 
Arrow and enter the following room. Go up to the edge of the platform and 
look around the room to find 3 Freezards blowing their icy breath. Shoot them 
all with Fire Arrows to make a chest appear in the room. Now, jump across the 
ledges to the north platform and open the chest to get the 7th Stray Fairy.

After you get that fairy, turn around and use Fire Arrows to light the 3 
unlit torches in the room. When you do that, you'll unlock the door, so jump 
across to the door directly across the pit (it's the middle door on the map) 
and enter that room. There, become Goron Link and pound the switch to make 
the middle platform in this room rise to the top floor. It'll also make 
another switch on the floor below rise. Now, become regular Link and go to 
the previous room. There, go up and drop down into the floor below. Go south 
and through the door there to reach the next room. Here, go up and right and 
become Goron Link. Defeat the Red Bubble, then walk over the switch in the 
lava (you don't get hurt by lava in Goron form). After the chest appears, go 
up to the next lava pool and open it to get the 8th Stray Fairy. Then, go up 
and left and right up the stairs to the first floor. There, go up and left 
into the following room. Go up and right onto the first section of the 
bridge. Become regular Link and shoot the Freezards and the ice block with 
Fire Arrows. After you kill them all, a chest will appear. Go back to the 
entrance of the room and walk along the path to the left of the door. Open 
the chest to get a Key. Then, become Goron Link and drop down the pit to the 
floor below. When you get down there, get to the north section of this area. 
Become regular Link and look up to find a Stray Fairy trapped in a bubble. 
Shoot an arrow at the bubble, then use the Great Fairy's Mask to get the 9th 
Stray Fairy. Then, go south a tiny bit and look up at the ledge under the 
bridge to find another trapped fairy. Shoot it with an arrow and use the mask 
to free the 10th Stray Fairy. Next, become Goron Link and head south through 
the lava pool. Climb up the ladder at the other side to get back up to the 
first floor. There, go left to the snow before the bridge. Start rolling in 
the snow, then roll at full speed across the bridge to the other side. At the 
other side, become regular Link and jump across to the north ledge and go up 
the stairs to the second floor.

There, defeat the Real Bombchu in front of you with an arrow, then equip the 
Fire Arrows and aim up to the higher ledge. Shoot the Freezard to kill it, 
revealing a frozen eye switch behind it. Jump onto the middle platform and 
shoot that switch with a Fire Arrow and it'll activate. The middle platform 
will then move upward, so go up and jump to the right platform. Walk around 
the path to the southeast corner of the room, then use the Lens of Truth to 
reveal several blocks forming steps to a higher ledge. Jump from block to 
block until you reach the top, then open the chest you find to get the 11th 
Stray Fairy. Now, turn around and drop down to the floor below. Stand on the 
middle platform and shoot at the eye switch to the north. Ride the platform 
up and jump to the next ledge, then go through the door in front of you to 
the next room. In this room, go right and drop down onto the grating that's 
supposed to keep you from falling to the floors below. Go up and climb the 
ladder at the other side, then shoot a Fire Arrow at the ice block in the 
doorway to melt it. Now, go up the steps to the 3rd floor. There, become 
Goron Link and go right. Roll along the snow bank against the wall to the 
west ledge. Then, unlock the door and enter the next room. Here, defeat the 
Eenos throughout this room. Get to the west part of the room and you'll find 
a few icicles on the ground, as well as snow on the wall. Use the Lens of 
Truth to see a hidden fairy trapped in a bubble. Shoot it with an arrow and 
use the Great Fairy's Mask to get your 12th Stray Fairy. Now, get to the 
north section of the room and use a Fire Arrow to melt the ice blocking the 
doorway. After that, go up the stairs to the 4th floor. In this new room, go 
up and defeat the two Dinofols and collect the 13th and 14th Stray Fairies 
they leave behind. After you do that, go through the door in the southeast 
part of the room to reach the following room. Here, just go straight across 
this room and enter the room at the other side. You'll have to fight the 
Wizrobe in this room. Read the Mini-Bosses section for help on beating it. 
After you win, go through the northwest door to reach the next room. Open the 
chest here to get the Boss Key.

After that, go through the door to the left of the chest. Follow the path 
left and destroy the icicles in your way, then go across to the west side of 
the room. Go through the door to reach the next room. There, defeat the two 
Dinofols and go north, then go down the stairs to the floor below. In this 
room, defeat the Eenos and go through the east door to the next room. Here, 
become Goron Link and roll left along the snow bank to reach the next 
platform. Then, go down the stairs to the second floor. Go up to the middle 
pillar and Tatl will point out the difference in colors in that pillar. Punch 
out the two blue sections in the pillar, then go back up the stairs to the 
previous floor. Go up to the center pillar and punch out the first blue 
section. Then, go back and roll right along the snow bank to the next 
section. There, go left to the pillar and punch the other blue section to 
level the top of the pillar. Now, go back and across that snow bank, then go 
right to the middle of the room. Go straight across and punch apart the four 
snowballs in your path. Then, go up the stairs to the 4th floor. There, start 
rolling straight ahead and you should get enough speed to jump the gap. At 
the other side, become Deku Link and activate the Lens of Truth. Then, look 
down towards the northwest corner of the room a couple floors down and you 
should see a hidden Deku Flower there. With the lens still on, dive and 
launch from the nearby flower and float all the way down to that ledge. When 
you land there, open the chest in the room to get the 15th and final Stray 
Fairy of this temple! Now, use the Deku Flower to fly up and left onto the 
north pathway. Go up the steps to the next floor and become Goron Link again, 
then go straight across the room and up to the 4th floor. There, roll up and 
across the gap, then go up and break the icicles. Use the Boss Key to open 
the door. Enter this room and you'll see the boss is frozen solid nearby. 
Become regular Link and use a Fire Arrow to thaw it and you'll enter battle 
against Goht. Read the Bosses section for help on winning this fight.

After you defeat Goht, collect the Heart Container it leaves behind and step 
into the light to get Goht's Remains! You will then enter a scene where you 
communicate with Goht for a moment. After that, the entire Goron Village will 
thaw out and become warm again. You will then return to the Mountain Village.

Mountain Village
----------------

When you arrive back in the thawed out village, play the Song of Soaring and 
fly to Snowhead again.

Snowhead
--------

When you get here, go up and talk to the large Goron and he'll have no clue 
what happened. Go all the way up the path towards the end, then roll up the 
ramp to the top. Then, follow the path right to a cave on the east side of 
this area. Enter the cave and go up to the fairy fountain, then the Great 
Fairy will appear and give you an enhanced magic meter for finding the 15 
Stray Fairies! Now, exit this cave and play the Song of Soaring again to warp 
to the Mountain Village owl.

Mountain Village
----------------

When you arrive here again, go right and enter the smithy's building. Pay 100 
rupees and get the Razor Sword forged. Then, go back outside and play the 
Song of Double Time to get to the next day. At that point, reenter the smithy 
and claim your new sword, which you can use 100 times before it disappears. 
Now, leave the shop and go southeast to the Twin Islands area.

Twin Islands
------------

In this area, go up and across the first bridge. Defeat the Wolfos and go 
across more bridges to the second large platform. Take care of the Wolfos 
there and continue up into the Goron Village.

Goron Village
-------------

When you enter this village, go right and down the ramp to the lower area. 
Then, go left and into the Goron Shrine. Here, go all the way up the path to 
the top, then become Goron Link and talk to the Elder. He'll thank you and 
tell you about how the Goron Races have started, and that you should go to 
them. So, go back down the path and exit this shrine. Then, go left and 
around the path to the north section of the village. Go north to a cave with 
a sign next to it talking about Powder Kegs. Become regular Link and enter 
that cave. Go down the 3 hills and become Goron Link, then talk to the big 
Goron to be tested with a Powder Keg. He'll tell you to bring it all the way 
to the Goron Racetrack to destroy the boulder in the way. So, pick up the lit 
Powder Keg and throw it up onto the top of the first hill, then roll up to 
it. Repeat that until you get out of the cave, then go up and right along the 
path going up. At the top of this path, go straight to the Twin Islands area.

Twin Islands
------------

When you enter this area with the Powder Keg, go across the bridges while 
avoiding the Wolfos along the way. When you reach the other side of this 
area, go right and throw the keg up to the ledge above the first ramp. Roll 
up to it and throw it again, then continue that until you get to the top. 
Place the Powder Keg next to the boulder, then get away before it explodes. 
The path to the track will now be open, so go up and enter the Goron 
Racetrack.

Goron Racetrack
---------------

When you enter the now open racetrack, go up and talk to the Elder's son. 
Choose to race and he'll give you some information about racing. All the 
Gorons will then line up on the starting line, so curl up and wait until it 
says go. Then, start rolling down the track for the race. Be sure to destroy 
the green pots along the way if you're running low on magic power. After you 
win the race, the kid will reward you with a Bottle filled with Gold Dust. 
Now, go right and exit this track completely.

Twin Islands
------------

Back in the Twin Islands area, go right and down all the hills. Then, go 
right along the path to the Mountain Village again.

Mountain Village
----------------

When you enter this village again, go up the path to the middle of this area. 
Go left and up the steps into the smithy, then talk to the guy inside as 
regular Link. Give him the Gold Dust and he'll make you a stronger sword, but 
you have to wait until the next day to pick it up. When you get back outside, 
play the Song of Double Time until you reach the following day, then reenter 
the smithy. Talk to the guy again and you'll have your new Gilded Sword, 
which is MUCH more powerful than your old swords. Now, exit this place and go 
east to the Twin Islands area.

Twin Islands
------------

As with all the other times you were here, just go up across the bridges and 
defeat the Wolfos along the way. Continue through this area until you reach 
the Goron Village.

Goron Village
-------------

Upon entering this area, go left and take the far-left path all the way down 
to the lower area. There, go left and become regular Link, then climb up into 
the cave. Go down the hills and become Goron Link. Talk to the big Goron to 
get a free Powder Keg since you're now certified to use them! Now, roll back 
up the hills and exit this cave. Outside, play the Song of Soaring and fly to 
Milk Road (if it's not the 1st Day, play the Song of Time to warp back to Day 
1, then collect some bombs, arrows, nuts, etc. After that, head south to Milk 
Road).

Milk Road
---------

When you appear at Milk Road, head east to the large boulder blocking the 
path to the ranch. Place the Powder Keg there and move away quickly before it 
explodes. After that, go up the path and into Romani Ranch.

Romani Ranch
------------

When you enter this ranch, head all the way up the path to the north section 
of this area. You'll find a girl shooting at a balloon there, as well as your 
horse behind a fence. Talk to the girl, whose name is Romani, then she'll 
tell you about the weird creatures that come out at night. Agree to help and 
choose to practice with the bow and arrows. Ride Epona around the ranch and 
shoot down all 10 balloons, then Romani will teach you Epona's Song and you 
get to keep Epona as well! Agree to come back at 2AM to help Romani, then get 
on Epona and ride south to exit this ranch.

Milk Road
---------

Back on Milk Road, go up the path and take the second path leading to the 
right. Go down that path to reach the Gorman Racetrack.

Gorman Racetrack
----------------

Here, go up and talk to the Gorman brother standing by the fence in front. 
The brothers will make fun of your horse, then challenge you to a race for 10 
rupees. Agree to race, and you'll have to race one lap around the track and 
beat them to win. After you win, you'll claim Garo's Mask as a prize. Now, 
get on Epona and exit this area.

Milk Road
---------

Now, you should play the Song of Double Time to make it become the night of 
the first day. Then, just wander around or go into Termina Field and collect 
rupees until it's 2AM. At that point, go back to Milk Road and go up the path 
into Romani Ranch.

Romani Ranch
------------

When you enter this area, summon Epona with the song Romani taught you. Then, 
ride up the path to the house and wait for Romani to come out. Talk to her, 
then ride around and make sure you have full capacity of arrows. When 2:30AM 
comes, the aliens will start coming in the masses! They're going towards the 
barn (not the house Romani came out of, but the other building nearby), so 
shoot them with arrows to keep them away. If you run low (and you will), ride 
through the bushes to pick up some more. When 5:15AM comes, the aliens will 
disappear and the mission will be complete. Romani will then reward you by 
giving you a Bottle full of Milk. Now, ride around and wait until it becomes 
Day 2. Then, enter the barn and talk to Cremia, Romani's older sister. She'll 
tell you that she's going into Clock Town for a delivery and will leave at 
6PM. So, go outside and play the Song of Double Time to warp to 6PM. There, 
go and talk to Cremia in the wagon and choose to deliver milk with her. After 
you ride out of the ranch, you'll find that Milk Road is closed and you'll 
have to make a detour through the Gorman Racetrack area. When you enter that 
area, Cremia will tell you to get ready to shoot off pursuers, which are the 
Gormans. As you ride through here, shoot at them to keep them away from the 
wagon. Just keep them at bay until you get out of there, then the mission 
will also be a success. Cremia will drop you off outside of East Clock Town 
and give you Romani's Mask as a way of saying thanks. After Cremia leaves, 
play the Song of Time to get back to Day 1, then play the Inverted Song of 
Time to slow down time a bit. Also, withdraw a few rupees from the bank in 
West Clock Town since you should be depositing rupees there often. Buy a Red 
Potion from the Trading Post, then get back out to Termina Field.

Termina Field
-------------

When you get out here again, ride around for a while and cut through the 
bushes to fill up on bombs, arrows, and rupees. Then, head to the eastern 
part of Termina Field while riding Epona. Once you get there, take the path 
directly east into the road leading to Ikana, as I call it.

Road to Ikana
-------------

When you enter this area with Epona, follow the path east while jumping over 
the fences along the way. Don't worry about the Real Bombchus since they 
can't hurt you while you're riding Epona. Continue jumping fences until you 
reach the large middle area, then go right and look for a circle of stones. 
Get off Epona and put on the Garo's Mask, then use the Lens of Truth to 
reveal a soldier sitting there. Talk to him, then give him the Red Potion to 
get him back on his feet. You'll then receive the Stone Mask as thanks for 
the help. Now, get back on Epona and head back west over the fences and out 
of this area completely for now.

Termina Field
-------------

Back in Termina Field, head all the way to the west half by riding Epona. 
Ride down the path west of Clock Town to reach the beach area. Continue west 
while feeding Epona carrots to gain speed, then jump over the large fence at 
the end and follow the path to the Great Bay Coast.

Great Bay Coast
---------------

When you enter this new area, go down the path and jump over the fences along 
the way. When you reach the beach area, continue up to the bay and get off 
Epona. Jump in the water and swim out to the building in the water. Climb 
onto the platform and activate the owl statue with your Sword, then aim up 
and shoot down Tingle's red balloon. When he lands, talk to him and buy the 
Great Bay map for 20 rupees. Then, climb up the nearby ladder and enter the 
Marine Research Lab. Here, go up and talk to the old man to find out about 
the Zora Eggs that are supposed to be hatching. He'll also tell you that the 
Zoras are late in arriving. Now, leave the building and jump back into the 
water. Then, swim to the south towards the beach again, where you'll find 
some seagulls hovering overhead. You'll also find a Zora laying in the water 
there. He'll ask you to bring him back to shore. Get behind him and push him 
to shore, then he'll walk onto the beach and faint. Go up and talk to him 
again and you'll find out he's Mikau of the Zora band. Listen to his little 
song, then play the Song of Healing to heal him. After watching a little FMV, 
the Zora will disappear and leave the Zora Mask behind, which will become 
your own. After you get the mask, become Zora Link and swim out to the 
building in the bay. Surface there and climb up the ladder, then enter the 
lab again. Talk to the man inside and he'll ask you to get the 7 Zora Eggs 
and put them in his aquarium. So, leave the building and get into the water, 
then swim back to the shore. Go up to the buildings by the beach and enter 
the Fisherman's Hut (it's the one with the sign in front). Talk to him as 
Zora Link, then check out the seahorse in the tank to the left. The fisherman 
will agree to give it to you if you can get a picture of one of the Gerudos 
for him. Now, leave the hut and take note of the other building nearby. 
That's the Oceanside Spider House, and you should come back later after 
you've obtained the Hookshot. Now, become regular Link and get on Epona, then 
ride east and out of the Great Bay area.

Termina Field
-------------

Back in Termina Field, go up the path and jump the high fence, then continue 
east to Clock Town.

Clock Town
----------

When you enter Clock Town (it should be Day 1), go through the entire trading 
sequence with Anju and Kafei (read how to find the Keaton Mask for details). 
After you get the Special Letter to Mama, wait until the Milk Bar, Latte 
opens at 10PM on the Final Night. Enter with Romani's Mask on, then talk to 
Madame Aroma and give her the letter to get a Bottle filled with Chateau 
Romani. Unfortunately, you won't really have a use for it at this point in 
time. So, exit the bar and play the Song of Time to warp back to Day 1. Play 
the Inverted Song of Time to slow things down, then get to West Clock Town 
and go to the Trading Post. Buy a couple of Red Potions (if you need rupees, 
withdraw some from the bank), then leave the shop. Go north and west to exit 
Clock Town.

Termina Field
-------------

In Termina Field again, ride around the area on Epona and destroy the bushes 
to get rupees, bombs, and arrows. Then, get off of the horse and play the 
Song of Soaring, then warp to the Great Bay again.

Great Bay Coast
---------------

When you appear in the Great Bay Coast again, become Zora Link and jump into 
the water. Swim towards the shore, then head north and around the bend. 
Continue going north all the way to the end, then dive to the bottom of the 
bay. You will find a few wooden boards covering up something at the bottom of 
the north wall. Ram into the middle one to reveal a hole, then swim down 
through the hole to emerge at the Pirates' Fortress.

Pirates' Fortress
-----------------

When you emerge here, go up the path to get a view of where you must head 
towards. You'll also notice all the Gerudo guards on boats patrolling the 
area, so be careful. To make this easy, become regular Link and put on the 
Stone Mask to become invisible to the Gerudos. Then, go up the path and jump 
into the large lagoon. Avoid the Skullfish here and climb onto a Gerudo boat 
when one passes, then ride it north across the lagoon. When you reach the 
north end, get off and go up the path to a switch. Become Goron Link and 
pound the switch to open up an underwater chamber. Now, wait for the boats to 
leave the north section of this area, then become Zora Link and dive into the 
water. Swim all the way to the southeast section of the lagoon and swim up 
and through that now open passage into the sewer system under the fortress. 
When you enter that area, swim through the tunnel and ram into the wooden 
board in the fence. Swim down through the hole, then dive so you can walk on 
the floor. Go up and push the gray block forward until it stops. Then, take 
the path to the left and around to the next block. Pull that one back until 
it stops, then go back around the path to where the first block was. Then, 
swim right and around the bend and destroy the wooden board in the fence. 
Break through the following board, then swim up and right through this room. 
At the end, ride the water jet up to the next section of this room. There, 
press B to walk on the ground and walk up the path, avoiding contact with the 
spiked mines. At the end of the hallway, surface and climb onto the ledge and 
go through the door into the next room. In this room, swim up through this 
room while avoiding those mines again. Go up the ramp to the right to reach 
the dry ledge, then become Goron Link and go up the steps to the higher 
ledge. Destroy the large barrels at the top, then become Zora Link and use 
the boomerang-type attack to hit the crystal switch on the other ledge to 
temporarily open the gate. Now, quickly go back down the steps and go left 
into the water. From there, go right and up to reach the next room.

In that new room, stay at the surface of the water and swim north down the 
hallway. Avoid the mines along the way and stay on the surface since the 
fast-moving current below will push you out of the fortress if you get caught 
by it. Continue up and left, then up a ladder to a higher platform. There, 
become regular Link and step on the switch in front of you to open a wall 
panel with a crystal switch in it. Now, stand on the nearby round platform 
and shoot the crystal switch with an arrow, then ride the water jet up to the 
next floor. Jump off at that point and climb up the nearby ladder. At the 
top, look through the telescope to see the Gerudo Fortress. Zoom in below the 
middle tower and you'll get a glimpse of where you must go next. Now, turn 
around and shoot the mines in the air with arrows to get a clear view of the 
crystal switch. After that, shoot the switch to open the door below. Then, 
drop down to the lower area and go through the door to get outside again. 
There, follow the path north and up the ramp, then enter the fortress at the 
top of the ramp. When you enter this fortress, make sure you become regular 
Link and wear the Stone Mask at all times. That way, the Gerudo guards won't 
see you and you won't have to risk being caught. Now, head south towards the 
middle of this area. Climb up the ladder to reach the top of the guard tower, 
then cross the bridge and slash the Gerudo as you go across to continue 
across the bridge. At the other side, go around and up and through the door 
into the fortress itself. Here, go up the hall and Tatl will notice a bee 
flying into a beehive in another room. You'll also witness a conversation 
between a guard and their leader, Aveil. After the conversation, look through 
that barred window and use the bow to shoot down the beehive to the right. 
All the Gerudo guards in that room will run away because of the bees, leaving 
the treasure unguarded. Now, go back left and exit this room. Outside, jump 
to the right down to a lower ledge and go through the door to enter the 
fortress. Go up and enter the main room, then open the chest to get the 
Hookshot!

Now that you have this valuable item, look to the left to see an aquarium 
with a Zora Egg in it. Use the Hookshot to pull up to a wooden plank above 
the tank, then drop onto the top of the tank. Become Zora Link and sink to 
the bottom of the tank, then use a Bottle to obtain the Zora Egg. After that, 
get out of the tank and put on the Stone Mask again, then get outside again. 
Get down to the middle area of this outside section, then head north. Use the 
Hookshot on the targets to get to the higher ledge. Get onto the ledge in the 
northwest corner of the map and enter that room. There, go up to the wall, 
then go left down the hallway. Follow the path to the end and enter the next 
room. In that room, go up and a Gerudo Pirate will come down to attack since 
they can see through your mask. Defeat the pirate by using Z-Targeting and 
attacking with your Sword and defending when she attacks. After you beat the 
pirate and she disappears, enter the next room and Hookshot onto the wood 
above the tank. Get onto the ledge at the top of the tank and use the 
Hookshot to kill off all the Skullfish and the Desbreka in the water. Then, 
become Zora Link and dive to the bottom of the tank. Use an empty Bottle to 
claim the 2nd Zora Egg, and open the chest there to get 20 rupees. Now, get 
out of the tank and go through the door to the left of the tank out of this 
area, making sure you have the Stone Mask on. Back outside, go along the 
north part of this area and you'll see a Hookshot target on the higher ledge. 
Hookshot onto it, then aim up and left and pull yourself to that target. 
Then, look to the east ledge and Hookshot up and onto the higher ledge in the 
northeast part of this area. Now, go across the bridge and enter the room 
there. Here, drop down to the main part of this room and open the big chest 
to get 100 rupees. Next, go up the ramp to the east of the chest, then go 
through the door into the next room. Go up and defeat the Gerudo Pirate that 
appears, then go through the door with the torches on either side of it to 
reach the next room.

There, Hookshot up to the top of the tank. Then, claim the Zora Egg like you 
did before in the other aquariums. After you get this egg, go down the path 
to the right of the tank and exit this room. Back outside again, drop down to 
the lower area and head to the south half now. There, you'll find Hookshot 
targets on the ledges, so Hookshot onto the first ledge. Then, Hookshot onto 
the southwest ledge in this area and enter the room to the east to enter the 
fortress again (go through the other doorway to exit this area completely). 
In this room, simply go right and up across this room since you have the 
Stone Mask on. At the other side, go through the door and enter the next 
room. Here, defeat another Gerudo Pirate and go up into the following room. 
Get up and into the tank again as Zora Link, then claim the 4th and final 
Zora Egg in your 4th Bottle. After that, take the path left of the tank back 
outside. Open the chest nearby to get 20 rupees, then play the Song of 
Soaring and fly to the Great Bay Coast. (Make sure you took a pictograph of 
one of the Gerudo guards first!)

Great Bay Coast
---------------

When you land here, go up the ladder and become Zora Link, then enter the 
lab. Talk to the old guy, then climb the large ladder to the right of the 
aquarium tank. Then, empty the Bottles one by one above the tank and the Zora 
Eggs will fall into the water (you have to find the right spot to stand, 
otherwise you won't be able to drop the eggs in). After you empty all 4 
Bottles, exit the lab and swim east to the shore. Back at the beach, go up 
towards the buildings and enter the Fisherman's Hut. Use Z-Targeting and talk 
to the seahorse in the tank. The fisherman will offer to trade it for a 
pictograph of a guard, so give him the picture and he'll give you the Sea 
Horse, which will be put in one of your current Bottles. Now, leave the hut 
and go back out to sea. In the sea, you'll notice that there are two large 
rocks next to each other on the left side of the map, which is out at sea. 
Swim out to those rocks and swim in between them to enter the Pinnacle Rock 
area.

Pinnacle Rock
-------------

When you enter this area, dive down so you can walk at the bottom of the 
water. Walk to the west and read the first signpost to find out there's murky 
water ahead. Now, release the seahorse from the Bottle and it'll direct you 
to the actual Pinnacle Rock. Follow it through the watery area to the end, 
then it'll ask you to defeat all the snakes in this area and find its friend. 
So, continue up the path and press B to descend the long dive to the bottom. 
Along the way down, you'll notice that there are small caves in the walls. 
Each cave is inhabited by a Deep Python, which are those snakes you're here 
to defeat. There are 8 of them total, so starting from the bottom, go to each 
cave and lure it out of the cave. Then, hit it twice with a Barrier attack (B 
+ R) to kill it. Be sure to enter their caves after you beat them, then pick 
up the 3 Zora Eggs left in this area and put them in Bottles. After you kill 
all 8 snakes, find the 3 Zora Eggs, and find the seahorse's friend (you get a 
Heart Piece for this), swim back up to the surface. Then, start swimming east 
towards the two rocks and you'll warp to them quickly. There, just swim east 
to reach the Great Bay Coast again.

Great Bay Coast
---------------

When you arrive here again, talk to the Zora that's nearby, then swim south 
to the Marine Research Lab. Climb onto the platform in front, then go up the 
ladder and into the lab. Go up and climb the big ladder to get on top of the 
large tank, then empty the last 3 Zora Eggs into that tank. After all 7 eggs 
are there, jump back down and look into the tank to see them all hatch and 
line up against the wall to form something. Become Zora Link and talk to the 
man and he'll ask if you have an instrument. Take out your Ocarina (or the 
guitar as Zora Link) and play the notes that appear onscreen to learn the New 
Wave Bossa Nova song. The old man will tell you to go play that song for the 
Zora that laid all those eggs. Now, leave this building and get into the 
water again. Swim back to the beach and go south to find a cave. Enter the 
cave to reach the Zora Cave, which is what I'll call it.

Zora Cape
---------

When you enter this southern area of the Great Bay area, head east along the  
beach area. When you reach a broken tree in the path, stand on it and 
Hookshot yourself onto the tree on a ledge up and to the left. Continue using 
the Hookshot to go from ledge to ledge until you get to the top. Enter the 
cave there to reach the Waterfall Rapids. Dive in the water and talk to the 
beaver at the bottom to race. You have to swim through 20 rings before time's 
up to win. After you win the first race, you'll have to race the bigger 
brother and go through 25 rings. When you win that race (you just have to go 
through all the rings), you'll win your 5th Bottle! Now, go back and exit 
this area. Jump into the water below and head northwest along the beach. 
Then, go west to the water. Swim out to the island in the middle of the 
water, then climb onto the back end of it to find Lulu, the Zora singer. Try 
talking to her and she'll just look sad. Play the New Wave Bossa Nova and a 
giant turtle will wake up out of the water. Before getting on it, become 
regular Link and activate the owl statue nearby. Then, use the Hookshot and 
latch onto the palm tree on the giant turtle's back. It'll then take you 
right into the Great Bay Temple.

Great Bay Temple
----------------

When you arrive at this temple, you'll jump off the turtle and onto the 
temple itself. In this first room, go around and light the 4 torches with 
Fire Arrows to make a chest appear. Open it to get the 1st Stray Fairy. Now, 
go north and into the next room. Here, you'll notice a giant waterwheel above 
you, which is what the temple is based around. For right now, get onto the 
platform to the left that moves up and down. Ride it to the top, then jump 
onto the platform with all the rupees on it. Collect the rupees and defeat 
the Skulltula that comes down, then grab the 2nd Stray Fairy. Next, become 
Zora Link and dive into the water, then swim under the south platform where 
you entered the room. Destroy the bubble under the platform to free the 2nd 
Stray Fairy. Next, swim to the northeast corner of the room and dive down so 
you can stand on the yellowish platform. There, turn the valve to cause a 
water jet to shoot upward nearby. Now, get back onto the south platform by 
the door and wait for the left platform (when facing the door) to come down. 
Ride it up to the higher ledge and defeat the Skulltulas, then go up to the 
other side of this platform. Wait for the water jet to lower, then jump on 
and ride it up to the higher ledge. There, follow the path around and up the 
ramp into the next room. In this room, become regular Link and Hookshot over 
to the barrel on the west platform. Destroy the barrel as Goron Link and grab 
Stray Fairy #4. Then, become Zora Link again and jump into the water currents 
below. Dive to the bottom and destroy the pot there while fighting the 
current to get Stray Fairy #5. Then, swim up to the southeast section while 
staying close to the wall, then take the underwater path there (it's the one 
with the red and green pipes going into it). Follow the current into the next 
room, then defeat the Skullfish swimming around. Surface and climb onto the 
platform to the left of where you entered the room. Become regular Link and 
use the Hookshot to pull yourself to the large chest on another platform. 
Open the chest to get the Map, then use your Hookshot to destroy the pots on 
the nearby platform to find a Stray Fairy. Use the Great Fairy's Mask to get 
the 6th Stray Fairy of the temple.

Now, become Zora Link and dive into the water. Go north and you'll find 
another underwater path to the left. Defeat the two Dexihands with the 
Boomerang attack, then swim through the passage to reach the next room. 
There, be careful and defeat the 3 Bio Deku Babas above you by hitting them 
with a Barrier attack. Then, swim up to the surface and climb onto a lily 
pad. Destroy the Bio Deku Baba hanging on the ceiling at the south end of 
this room. After you beat it, become regular Link and Hookshot onto the chest 
that appears. Open it to get Stray Fairy #7, then jump across the lily pads 
to the north ledge. Go through the door into the next room. In this room, go 
up and into the water and defeat the enemies here as Zora Link. Then, open 
the chest at the bottom to get a Key. Now, swim up to the surface and climb 
onto one of the lily pads. Become regular Link and use an arrow to destroy 
the Real Bombchu on the high ledge. Then, grapple onto the large chest with 
the Hookshot and open it to get the Compass. Next, get into the water and 
swim across to the large platform. Stand at the edge of the water to the left 
of the door and look down to find a couple of Dexihands and a pot. Use the 
Hookshot to destroy the pot, then use the Great Fairy's Mask to get Stray 
Fairy #8. Now, become Zora Link and jump into the strong water currents to be 
pushed into the main room with the turbine. There, press B to sink to the 
bottom of the water, then stay against the wall as the current pushes you. 
When you reach the northwest corner of the room, swim into the tunnel and 
you'll be pushed into the next room. Defeat the 2 Shell Blades here and swim 
up to the surface. Get to the east side of the room while avoiding the 
Octoroks, then walk up the red pipe to get out of the water. Defeat the Real 
Bombchu using the Boomerang attack, then continue around to the north 
platform. Use the Key and open the door to reach the next room.

In this next room, defeat the Green and Yellow Chuchus and destroy the pots 
to get arrows, bombs, rupees, etc. After that, continue up to the next room. 
Here, look up at the giant eyeball in the ceiling and it'll come down, 
causing you to enter a mini-boss battle against Wart. Read the Mini-Bosses 
section for help on beating it. After you win, open the chest that appears to 
get Ice Arrows! Now, go back through the door and exit this room. In the next 
room, go straight through and into the following room. There, jump in the 
water and swim to the platform in the southeast corner of the room. Wait for 
the Octorok to come out of the water between your platform and the middle 
one. Shoot it with an Ice Arrow to turn it into a floating glacier. Jump onto 
it as regular Link, then jump onto the middle platform. Push the giant valve 
counter-clockwise to make a water jet come up in a different room. Now, jump 
in the water and become Zora Link, then swim down to the bottom. Swim through 
the tunnel in the south wall to end up in the large turbine room again. Here, 
swim upward and stay against the wall, then get into the tunnel in the 
southeast corner of the room. When you arrive in the next room, surface and 
climb onto the north platform. From there, look towards the south end of the 
room and shoot an Ice Arrow in the water close to you. Jump onto the ice 
platform that forms and shoot another Ice Arrow to make another platform. 
Continue that to get across to the south end of the room, then climb onto the 
ledge and enter the next room. In this room, lure the Blue Chuchu towards the 
high platform in the back of the room. When it gets there, turn around and 
hit it with an Ice Arrow to turn it into an ice block. Climb onto it and jump 
onto the higher ledge. Defeat the Real Bombchu with an arrow, then push the 
valve to change the water in another room. Go back to the previous room and 
become Zora Link, then swim through the underwater tunnel to reach the next 
room. There, swim up to the north end and climb onto the ledge, then enter 
the following room. Defeat the Bio Deku Babas in the water, then become 
regular Link and shoot Ice Arrows into the water to form platforms. Get 
across to the north part of this room and jump onto the ledge with the 
icicles on it.

Now, cut through the icicles on the ledge and continue down to find a wall of 
ice that you can't pass. Shoot a Fire Arrow to melt it, then continue to the 
next room. Here, you'll have to fight the Gekko mini-boss, so read that 
section to find out how to win this time. After the fight, go through the 
open door to the next room, then go down the hall and open the chest to get 
the Boss Key! Now, climb through the window to the right and jump into the 
water. Swim to the south platform and jump into the strong currents to reach 
the turbine room again. There, surface at the top and climb onto a ledge. Get 
onto a higher ledge and jump onto the spinning turbine as it passes near you. 
Ride it to the north part of this area and jump onto the ledge there. Go up 
and shoot the water covering the ladder with an Ice Arrow to stop the water 
from coming down. Now, climb the ladder and enter the next room. In this 
room, use the Ice Arrows to make a series of platforms leading to the green 
platform across the room. When you get onto that platform. push the valve 
around to activate something else. Next, use the Hookshot and pull yourself 
to the barrels on the west platform. Defeat any Tektites in the water, then 
shoot an Ice Arrow into the water on the northwest part of the room. Continue 
making platforms until you're right under the hole in the grating above you. 
Then, shoot up and hit the Hookshot target to get pulled up to the grating. 
There, open the chest and get the 9th Stray Fairy. Now, play the Song of 
Soaring to warp back to the temple's entrance. Go up into the next room and 
become Zora Link, then ride the right platform (when your back is to the 
door) up to the higher ledge. Then, go left and up and jump onto the water 
jet. From there, go around the path to the end. Before you go up the ramp, 
look up above the water jet coming from the red fountain. Shoot the Hookshot 
target and you'll land on that water jet. When it reaches its highest point, 
jump onto the red platform.

Push the valve around to make the turbine stop. Then, get back in the water 
and swim to the yellow platform. Turn the valve there to make the turbine 
move in the other direction. Now, get back to the entrance of the room and 
ride up to the higher platforms. Continue around the path all the way into 
the following room to the north. There, jump in the water as Zora Link and 
dive about halfway towards the bottom. When you get to the northeast corner 
of this room, take the tunnel all the way northeast (don't swim up to surface 
above the Dexihands). Continue all the way down the tunnel to the new room, 
then surface while avoiding the spiked mines and Skullfish. Get onto the 
northwest ledge and ride the elevator platform up to its highest point, Then, 
jump to the east over the spinning pole and onto the next platform when it's 
close enough to you. As you ride across, look to the southeast corner to find 
a torch. Become regular Link and Hookshot over to that torch, then open the 
chest to get Stray Fairy #10. Now, get back to the northwest ledge and ride 
the moving platform upward. As you ride upward, aim an Ice Arrow at the 
waterfall to the right. When you reach the highest point, quickly shoot it to 
freeze the gears and the platform you're on. Now, carefully jump onto the 
gear shaft and go south onto the section of gears that are tilted upward. 
Walk to the top of one and Hookshot to a chest on a north ledge. Open it to 
get Stray Fairy #11. Now, jump back down to the gears and continue south 
across them. When you reach the end, go right onto the flat gear blade and 
jump onto the next ledge. From there, go up and into the next room. Here, go 
down the path and become Zora Link. Then, dive in the water and go underneath 
the see-saw in the north part of the room. Sink to the bottom of this 
underwater chamber and ram the barrel to release Stray Fairy #12. Now, get 
back to the surface and go to the see-saw in the southeast area of the room. 
Stand on the low end and aim up and shoot a Fire Arrow at the ice on the 
ceiling, which will keep the other end weighed down.

When your end rises, jump onto the next see-saw in the air. Shoot another 
Fire Arrow at the ice above and your end will rise again. Then, jump onto the 
green platform and turn the valve there. Now, defeat the Real Bombchu on the 
east green pipe. After that, become Zora Link and walk east across the green 
pipe. Jump up to the higher section and go right, then fall into the room 
directly below you. Go south and become regular Link, then Hookshot over to 
the chest and get Stray Fairy #13. Next, drop down to the area below and get 
on the low end of the see-saw in the northwest section of the room. Shoot a 
Fire Arrow up at the ice to weigh down the other side, and your side will 
rise. Jump onto the next ledge and go right through the door into the next 
room. There, become Zora Link and jump into the water below. Swim down and 
through the tunnel in the northwest part of the room to reach the turbine 
room. Back in this room, dive down to the very bottom, then go through the 
tunnel in the southeast part of the room (it's the one with the green pipe 
going through it). In that new room, press B to walk on the ground. Look up 
under the middle platform above to see a fairy trapped in a bubble. Swim up 
to the surface and get onto the green pipe in the east side of the room. 
Stand at the lowest point on the pipe and become regular Link, then look 
under the middle platform and shoot the bubble with an arrow. Then, wear the 
Great Fairy's Mask to obtain Stray Fairy #14. Now, dive back down to the 
floor and get to the northwest part of the room. Stand on the ground and look 
north to see a fairy trapped in a bubble. Use the Boomerang attack to burst 
the bubble, then swim through the tunnel to grab the 15th and final Stray 
Fairy. In the room you end up in, simply go through the green tunnel to get 
here again. Then, swim up to the surface and walk up along the top of the 
green pipe. Follow the path up and around to another valve, then push it 
around to cause a water jet to appear. Wait for the water jet to go down, 
then jump onto it and ride it upward. Jump onto the next platform and use the 
Boss Key to enter the next room.

When you enter this room, go up and drop down the really long shaft to land 
in the boss's room. You'll see the boss swimming around, then it'll jump over 
you and drop into the water again. The battle will then begin against Gyorg, 
the Gargantuan Masked Fish. Read the Bosses section for help on beating this 
very difficult boss. After you defeat this creature, grab the Heart Container 
and go into the circle of light to get Gyorg's Remains. Go through the next 
cinema scene and you'll find out that there's one more temple guardian that 
you have to go help. You'll then be dropped off at Zora Cape again.

Zora Cape
---------

When you arrive here again, the giant turtle will tell you that it has to go 
back to its slumber, but not before hearing Lulu's voice. So, turn into Zora 
Link and enter the Zora Hall.

Zora Hall
---------

When you enter this area, go up the path, then right into the main area. Make 
your way to the stage in the middle and talk to Lulu. She'll tell you about 
the eggs, then the concert will begin. After watching a short song, go back 
across the area and take the path east to exit Zora Hall.

Zora Cape
---------

Back outside, jump into the water and swim directly east. You should find 
several ledges that you can jump across. Swim all the way to the shore to 
reach the smallest one, then head south jumping from ledge to ledge to reach 
the large platform. Go right to the edge and you'll see another island with a 
palm tree on it. Hookshot over to it, then do that to reach the following 
ledge. When you reach the last ledge with a palm tree, jump across the last 
couple ledges to reach the wall. Bomb the boulders and enter the cave, which 
is a Fairy Fountain. Go up to the fountain and the 15 Stray Fairies will fly 
out of your possession. The Great Fairy will then appear and give you more 
strength, which outlines all your hearts with white lines. You now have twice 
as much defensive power as you did before! Now, go back and exit this cave. 
Back outside, play the Song of Soaring and fly to the Great Bay Coast again.

Great Bay Coast
---------------

When you arrive here, become Zora Link if you're not already and jump in the 
water. Swim east to the shore and walk to the two buildings. Enter the 
Oceanside Spider House to the left (make sure it's Day 1, otherwise you won't 
get the Giant Wallet). Go up and bomb the wall to open up the house, then 
you'll be ready to go. Read the Spider Houses section for help on finding all 
30 Golden Skulltulas. After you get them all, talk to the guy standing at the 
entrance to the house to get the Giant Wallet, which holds up to 500 rupees! 
You're going to need to hold that capacity in order to get another mask very 
soon. Now, go outside and play the Song of Soaring, then warp to Clock Town.

Clock Town
----------

When you appear by the owl statue in South Clock Town, wait until about 12AM 
on the 1st night, then go north to North Clock Town. Save the old lady from 
the robber, then warp ahead to the Final night. At that point, go to West 
Clock Town and take out 500 rupees (or however much you need to have 500 
total) from the bank, then wait until the Curiosity Shop opens at 10PM. When 
it becomes 10PM, enter the shop and buy the All-Night Mask for 500 rupees. 
After that, exit the shop and play the Song of Time to warp back to Day 1. 
When you get there, play the Song of Double Time to warp ahead to the night. 
Then, wait until it's about 10PM and go to East Clock Town. Wear Romani's 
Mask to enter the Milk Bar, Latte. There, talk to the fat Zora guy and 
perform the sound test as regular Link, Deku Link, Goron Link, and Zora Link. 
After you do all that, you'll get the Circus Leader's Mask. Now, exit the bar 
and warp back in time again to Day 1. This time, slow down time with the 
Inverted Song of Time. Then, head to East Clock Town and get past the guard 
in your way to exit Clock Town.

Termina Field
-------------

When you enter Termina Field again, summon Epona and climb on. Ride around 
the field to collect rupees, bombs, arrows, etc. When you're ready to go, get 
to the east area of Termina Field and head east to the road leading to Ikana.

Road to Ikana
-------------

When you enter this new area again, go up the path while riding Epona. Don't 
worry about the Real Bombchus since you won't take damage while riding 
around. Continue up the hill and pick up speed, then jump over the fence to 
reach the other side. Go straight and jump over a second fence, then take the 
path going left to the end of the path for Epona. Get off and climb to the 
higher ledge, then follow the path into Ikana Graveyard.

Ikana Graveyard
---------------

Upon entering this graveyard, head north and up the path while defeating the 
bats along the way. Talk to Dampe halfway up the path, then continue north to 
the giant wall. You'll find a large skeleton craeture sleeping in the right 
section of the wall. Go up to it (put on the Bunny Hood first) and play the 
Sonata of Awakening to wake it up. The giant creature known as Skull Keeta 
will then wake up and start walking quickly up the path. Read the Mini-Bosses 
section for some quick strategy on defeating this creature. After you win, 
Skull Keeta will tell you its story before disappearing and granting you 
access to the chest on the ledge. Hookshot over to it and open it to get the 
Captain's Hat. Now, drop down to the ground and head south to the southern 
half of the graveyard. Play the Song of Double Time to make it the 1st Night. 
You will now see a bunch of Stalchildren standing around a tombstone. Put on 
the Captain's Hat and talk to them, then get them to open the grave. Drop 
into the hole that's revealed to enter the grave. There, go north across the 
ledges to the next room. In that room, defeat the massive swarm of bats to 
make a chest appear. Open it to get 50 rupees. Now, take out your Fire Arrows 
and light all the torches in this room (if you have Deku Sticks, go to the 
previous room and light one, then come back and light the torches that way). 
Light them all to open the door, then go north and into the next room. Here, 
go up and defeat the Iron Knuckle, which won't attack you until you attack 
it! Defeat this knight, then the curtain will rise, revealing another tomb. 
The ghost of the composer called Flat will appear and tell you his story. 
After he disappears, hop onto the stage and check out the stone. Learn the 
Song of Storms here, then go back to the previous room and continue out of 
this cave. Back outside, play the Song of Double Time until you reach the 
Final Night.

Then, wear the Captain's Hat and talk to the Stalchildren standing around 
another tombstone. Have them open the grave, then drop down into the cave 
below. Here, go north and drop down to the lower area. Talk to Dampe without 
any masks on and he'll tell you he's looking for treasure. Agree to let him 
follow you, then Z-Target him and walk slowly around the room with him 
following. Walk him to each patch of dirt on the bottom floor to try and find 
a beam of light underneath those patches. Dig in all the dirt patches on the 
bottom floor, then have Dampe follow you to the back end of the room and onto 
the square platform to the left (with your back to the entrance of this 
room). After he's on it, get off and it'll bring Dampe up to a higher ledge. 
So, go south and up a ladder to an elevated patch of dirt. When Dampe 
arrives, Z-Target him and have him follow you onto the patch of dirt. Have 
him dig up the dirt to find another beam of light. After all 3 beams of light 
are uncovered, a Big Poe will appear to attack. Read the Mini-Bosses section 
for help on defeating the Big Poe. After you beat it, a chest will appear at 
the top of the stairs by the entrance to this room. Go up and open it to get 
your 6th and final Bottle. Now, drop down to the main area of the room and go 
across to the other side. Go up the middle stairs and go up to the top floor. 
There, go through the door to get back outside. Now that you're outside 
again, head all the way south along the path to exit Ikana Graveyard 
completely.

Road to Ikana
-------------

When you arrive back here, drop down to the lower area and go south. You'll 
find a guy sitting on top of the high ledge, so walk towards him and he'll 
talk to you. He'll pretty much tell you that you need Garo's Mask to proceed. 
Since you got it earlier in the game, put on the mask and the guy will make a 
wooden tree come out of the ground. Use the Hookshot to get up to that higher 
ledge, then continue east on foot while avoiding all the Blue Bubbles. It 
would help if you wore to Bunny Hood to get through here quickly. Continue up 
the path to the next area, which is the Ikana Canyon.

Ikana Canyon
------------

When you enter this area, go north along the path and Tatl will point out 
that there is an unseen creature nearby, so put on the Garo's Mask and fight 
the Garo that appears. After you get its hint, continue north to the river 
and 2 Octoroks will come out. Shoot them with Ice Arrows to turn them into 
ice blocks. Now, jump across them to reach the other side of the river. 
There, look up and Hookshot onto the wooden tree on the high ledge. Do that a 
couple more times on other ledges to reach the top, then activate the owl 
statue as regular Link. Continue north and up the hill to the higher area, 
then go left and up another ramp. At the top of that one, aim up in the sky 
and shoot down Tingle with an arrow. Buy the Stone Tower map from him, then 
go back down the hill to the lower area. Head east across the area and north 
up the path to the top. Go north and into the cave, then go up and the ghost 
of Sharp will appear and curse you. Play the Song of Storms to cause Sharp to 
disappear and the river will now flow normally through the canyon. It'll also 
cause the Gibdos to disappear throughout town. Now, Sharp will become normal 
and tell you to go to the temple and rid the place of evil. Next, exit this 
cave and go south towards the Music House. There's a little girl in front of 
the house, so be careful that she doesn't see you. When she walks away, 
quickly enter the house and go down into the basement. Go up and you'll find 
a man that's halfway turned into a Gibdo. Don't go up to him, instead play 
the Song of Healing to turn him back to normal. As a reward, you will receive 
the Gibdo Mask. Now, play the Song of Soaring to warp back to Clock Town (it 
should be pretty late at night on the Final Night by now).

Clock Town
----------

When you get back to Clock Town, get to West Clock Town and deposit your 
rupees. Then, play the Song of Time to warp to Day 1. Slow down time when you 
get there, then go through the whole Kafei and Anju trading sequence up to 
Ikana Canyon (read the Secrets section for details). After you do that (you 
should have the Special Letter to Mama at that point), go through Termina 
Field to stock up on rupees, arrows, bombs, etc. Then, play the Song of 
Soaring and fly back to Ikana Canyon.

Ikana Canyon
------------

Once you get here again (it should be the Final Day), head south and jump 
into the water below. Watch out for the Octoroks and climb onto the ledge at 
the other side. Go up and follow the path east along the south side of the 
river. Continue past the Akindo Nut to reach Sakon's Hideout. Go behind the 
rocks nearby to find Kafei. Talk to him and he'll tell you how to get in. 
Now, wait until 6PM for Sakon to return. Wear the Stone Mask to keep him from 
seeing you. Wait until he opens the hideout's rock door and Kafei runs in, 
then follow them into the hideout.

Sakon's Hideout
---------------

When you enter Sakon's Hideout, go straight ahead into the next room. Here, 
Kafei will spot the Sun's Mask and set off a trap. He'll tell you to step on 
the switch to open the door, so step on the switch to gain control of Kafei. 
(Note: You must be quick getting through this hideout because the mask is 
moving on a conveyor and you want to prevent it from reaching the end.) In 
the next room, have Kafei push one of the large blocks onto the switch in the 
middle to open the next room. When you gain control of Link, go into the left 
room and defeat a Deku Baba to open the door to the next room. As Kafei, 
continue to the next room and step on the greenish switch in the lower-right 
corner. As Link, go to the next room and defeat 2 Deku Babas to continue. In 
the third room as Kafei, where you must push the blocks onto the yellow and 
green switches in the room. Accomplish this by first pushing the blocks in 
the left and right rows of the room down one space. Then, push the middle 
block left onto the yellow switch. From there, push the block south of you 
onto the green switch to open the door. Then, gain control of Link and go to 
the next room. There, defeat a Wolfos to open the next door. As Kafei, run 
into the next room and step on the switch in front of him. As Link, go into 
the same room and step on the other switch to cover the pit and save the 
Sun's Mask. Kafei will then take the mask and you'll be brought back outside. 
Kafei will then run back to town with his mask, so follow him by playing the 
Song of Soaring and warping back to Clock Town.

Clock Town
----------

When you arrive at Clock Town, take this time to deposit any rupees you have 
at the bank in West Clock Town. Then, get to East Clock Town and enter the 
Stock Pot Inn. Go upstairs and enter the Employees Only room, then wait until 
4AM for Kafei to arrive. At that point, Anju and Kafei will exchange masks 
and you'll gain the Couple's Mask. After that, open the chest to get 100 
rupees, then leave the room and exit the inn. Get back to West Clock Town and 
deposit thoes rupees, then play the Song of Time to get back to Day 1. Slow 
down time as soon as you get there. Before heading back to Ikana, it's time 
to gather a few quick items. Go to the Southern Swamp as Deku Link and buy 5 
Magic Beans total from the Akindo Nut. Then, go to the Akindo Nut outside 
Sakon's Hideout in Ikana Canyon and buy a Blue Potion from it. After that, go 
back to Clock Town and buy some Bombs and Deku Nuts. Now that you have all 
those items, play the Song of Soaring and warp back to Ikana Canyon.

Ikana Canyon
------------

When you arrive in Ikana Canyon, head north along the path. Then, go left and 
up another hill. Continue north and along the paths to the highest point of 
this canyon, where you'll find an empty well. Climb down it to reach the 
bottom, then go into the cave to enter the well.

Beneath the Well
----------------

In the first room you arrive in, put on your Gibdo Mask before going any 
further. Then, go straight ahead and talk to the Gibdo in front of the locked 
door. Give it the Blue Potion and go through to the next room. In this room, 
go up and left into a side room. Fill a Bottle with Spring Water and another 
with a Fish. Go back to the main room and become Deku Link, then use the Deku 
Flower to fly over the spiked logs up ahead. At the other side, become 
regular Link and go to the north door. Give the Gibdo the Spring Water, then 
continue up into the next room. Here, go up and burn the cobweb to the left 
with a Fire Arrow. Then, go left into a side room and fill 3 Bottles with 
bugs there. After that, go right and up through the room when the spiked logs 
aren't in the way. Then, give the Gibdo at the east door a bug and enter the 
next room. Use the Lens of Truth to reveal a hidden chest, then open it to 
get 50 rupees. Now, go back to the previous room and head south to reach the 
following room. There, go west and give the Gibdo at the door a fish in a 
Bottle. Now, go into the next room and go up to find two eyeball switches on 
the wall shooting fire. Wait until the eyes open, then shoot them with arrows 
to destroy them. Continue west and defeat the Dexihand in the water, then 
grab a Bottle full of Hot Spring Water. Now, go back east and south into 
another side room. Fill another Bottle with another fish, then go north and 
east to the next room. Go east and south through this room quickly while 
avoiding the spiked logs. At the end, go south into the next room. There, go 
east and give the Gibdo at the door 5 Magic Beans to proceed. In the next 
room, go east all the way to the door, then give the Gibdo 10 Deku Nuts to 
open the door. Continue into the next room, then run to the east door and 
give the Gibdo the Hot Spring Water before it cools. Enter the east room and 
play Epona's Song for the cow to get a Bottle of milk. Now, go back to the 
previous room and go north, then give that Gibdo 10 Bombs.

After you do that, go up and into the following room. In this room, go 
straight up and avoid the spinning blade traps and a Big Poe will appear. 
Defeat it and capture its spirit inside a Bottle, then go back to the 
previous room. Go directly west through this room while defeating any type of 
Keese that follow you. At the end, go west into the next room. There, go 
straight ahead to a Gibdo guarding the north door. Give it a fish and 
continue into the next room. In this room, go all the way north to the other 
end of the room. Do not destroy the pots lined up against the right wall 
because there are only those annoying Black Boes inside. Talk to the Gibdo at 
the north door and give it the Big Poe in a Bottle. From there, go north and 
into the next room. Here, go north and avoid the Wallmaster that's going to 
come down. Defeat it, then cautiously make your way through the group of 
spiked logs without taking too much damage. At the other side, go up and give 
the last Gibdo some milk to proceed to the following room. In this room, 
light all 4 torches around the light area of the floor with Fire Arrows to 
make a chest appear to the right. Open it to obtain the Mirror Shield! Now 
that you have a shield that can reflect light, stand in the light nearby and 
shine light onto the sun switch on the wall. Doing so will make a ladder 
appear leading to a higher ledge. Shine light onto the blue block up there to 
make it disappear, then climb up the ladder and get into the Ancient Castle 
of Ikana.

Ancient Castle of Ikana
-----------------------

Upon entering this new area, go up the long ladder in front of you to get out 
of the wall and into the castle grounds. There, play the Song of Soaring and 
warp to Clock Town.

Clock Town
----------

When you enter Clock Town, go west into West Clock Town. There, go into the 
Bomb Shop and become Goron Link. Talk to the Goron sitting to the right and 
buy a Powder Keg from him. After that, exit the shop and play the Song of 
Soaring again to warp back to Ikana Canyon.

Ikana Canyon
------------

Back in the Ikana area, head east to the other side of the dry river. Look to 
the left of the castle's sealed gate and go through a hole in the wall to 
enter the castle grounds again.

Ancient Castle of Ikana
-----------------------

When you enter this area, go left and hit the crystal switch with your sword 
to make light shine in the room. Use the Mirror Shield and shine that light 
on the blue block nearby to make it vanish. Now, go south and into the main 
area of this place. Now, go east and enter the castle itself (make sure you 
wear the Gibdo Mask or Captain's Hat here to avoid battling the ReDeads). In 
the castle, go up and you'll notice a couple of eye switches on the pillars 
covered with ice. Shoot the one behind the left pillar to open the left door, 
then go to the left side and enter that room. Here, go up and hit the crystal 
switch with the sword to make the red hot floor rise to the ceiling for a 
moment, leaving a regular room with Deku Flowers scattered around. Become 
Deku Link and dive into one of those Deku Flowers, then wait for the floor to 
come back down. Launch from the flower to push the floor back up for a 
moment. Use that time to get about halfway across the room and into another 
flower. You'll notice that there's a high pillar on the side of the room with 
a switch on top. When the floor comes down, launch out to make it go up, then 
dive back into the flower and make a higher launch to get onto that ledge. 
Become regular Link and activate that switch to open the door to the next 
room. Now, quickly jump to the other side of the room and go into the new 
room. Here, become Deku Link and use the Deku Flower to fly to the ledge to 
the left. Activate the switch as regular Link to open the door across the 
room, then use the Lens of Truth to reveal a hidden platform. Jump onto that 
platform and aim up, then shoot down the Skulltulas waiting to come down on 
you up ahead. Then, jump onto the next ledge and from there, jump onto the 
following ledge. On this ledge, get to the other side and jump up and to the 
right onto the last platform by the door. Go through the door into the next 
room. Here, watch out for the Blue Bubbles so you don't get jinxed (play the 
Song of Storms to cure yourself if jinxed) and shoot them down with arrows or 
the Hookshot.

After that, continue up through the room and go up the stairs at the end to 
reach the second floor. There, go straight through the door to get outside 
again. Here, go straight ahead and climb onto the wall that goes around the 
balcony of the castle. Walk along it and get to the front of the castle, then 
drop down to the ledge with the Deku Flower in front. Become Deku Link and 
fly onto the pillar in front of you with the switch. Activate it as regular 
Link to cause a block to move inside the east section of the castle. Now, 
drop down to the ground and enter the castle's main entrance again. Go up and 
defeat the ReDeads if you're not wearing the mask, then shoot a Fire Arrow at 
the eye switch covered with ice on the right pillar. After that, go right and 
into the east room. Here, go around and defeat the Floormaster, then shine 
light on the blue block to make it disappear. Defeat the ReDeads at the other 
side, then just continue up to the next room. In this room, you'll have to 
fight the Wizrobe mini-boss, so read the Mini-Bosses section to find out how 
to defeat it again. After you win, go east and into the next room. There, 
defeat the ReDeads and go up the stairs at the other side of the room to 
reach the second floor. Once there, just go up and through the door to get 
outside again. Here, go around to the front of the castle and Tatl will point 
out an area where the rocks are cracked. Become Goron Link and put the Powder 
Keg there, then after it explodes, drop down into the room below. There, 
become regular Link and put on the Gibdo Mask to keep the ReDeads from 
bothering you. Now, shine the light from the hole above on the blue block in 
front of you to make it disappear. After that, go up the hall and into the 
next area. There, just go up through the door into the following room. Here, 
go up and you'll see the curtains block the sunlight and someone will start 
speaking. You'll meet the skeleton of the old king of the castle, then he'll 
have his servants attack you. Read the Mini-Bosses section for help on 
defeating them, as well as the King of Ikana that you fight right after them.

After you defeat the servants and the king, the servants will start arguing 
among themselves. After they leave and the king appears, he'll tell you about 
the whole problem with Ikana and how it's because of the Stone Tower being 
opened. He'll then teach you the Elegy of Emptiness to help you in the next 
area of the game. Now, go back through the door and out of this room. Then, 
continue straight ahead to get to the main room of the castle. Go straight 
through to get back outside, then play the Song of Soaring and warp to Ikana 
Canyon (it's a quick shortcut to get out of here).

Ikana Canyon
------------

Back in the canyon area, go north and up the hill to the Music House. Go east 
and across the dried up river, then get to the northeast corner of the map. 
Go up the steps and enter the Stone Tower there.

Stone Tower
-----------

When you enter this tower, go north and jump across the 3 blocks to the ledge 
at the other side. There, look up and to the left, then Hookshot onto the 
higher ledge. There, destroy the Beamos and stand on the switch, then play 
the Elegy of Emptiness to place a shell of yourself on it. Now, drop back 
down to the first ledge and become Zora Link. Stand on the switch and create 
a shell there, then become regular Link and get back up to the higher ledge. 
From there, look up and to the east and Hookshot onto the higher platform 
there. Now, become Goron Link and create a shell of yourself while standing 
on the switch. Then, become regular Link and wear the Bunny Hood, then jump 
south across the block bridge to the other side. Now, aim up and Hookshot 
onto the west ledge above you. Once there, stand on the switch and create a 
shell of yourself as regular Link. Then, aim up at the Hookshot target on the 
north ledge and pull yourself up there. There, become Zora Link and create a 
shell of yourself on the switch here. After that, become regular Link again 
and Hookshot to the higher ledge. Become Goron Link and create another shell 
on that switch, then become regular Link and jump across the block bridge. At 
the other side, Hookshot up to the high east platform. There, avoid the 
boulders and Hookshot onto the higher ledge to the south. Next, look to the 
southwest area and Hookshot up to another ledge. Once there, you'll see 3 
switches in front of you. Stand on the middle one and create a shell of 
regular Link by playing the Elegy of Emptiness. After that, become Goron or 
Zora Link and stand on the switch to the left, then create a shell on it. 
Finally, stand on the right switch as Zora Link and create a shell there. 
Now, become regular Link again and activate the owl statue against the wall 
with your sword. Before continuing, it's recommended that you get back to Day 
1 (slow down time right after that) and buy at least 2 or 3 Green and/or Blue 
Potions. Also, stock up on bombs, arrows, etc. After that, return to the owl 
statue in the Stone Tower by playing the Song of Soaring. Then, step on the 
switches in the same order as before and cross the bridge to enter the Stone 
Tower Temple.

Stone Tower Temple (Normal)
---------------------------

When you first enter the Stone Tower Temple, go north and defeat the Real 
Bombchus and the Dragonflies. Then, look up at the giant face stone in front 
of you and shoot the eye switch with an arrow to make a chest appear. 
Hookshot over to the chest and open it to get Stray Fairy #1. After that, 
drop down to the lower are and climb the ladder to get up to the other side. 
Now, go west from the entrance to the temple and enter the next room. Here, 
go up and shield yourself when the Real Bombchu comes towards you and 
explodes. Go up and bomb the cracked wall, then become Goron Link and destroy 
the large crates to reveal two smaller ones. Take those crates and place them 
on the two regular switches in the room. Then, become regular Link and create 
a shell on the third small switch. Next, become Goron Link and stand on the 
much larger switch and create a shell of yourself to keep it down. Now, go 
through the now open gate in the northeast part of the room and continue 
outside to the next room. There, defeat the Guays and Dragonfly and get to 
the other side of the room, then bomb the square patch to make a hole in the 
floor. Now, go down the stairs to the next floor. Here, go up and stand in 
the sunlight from the hole above and shine it on the blue block to make it 
vanish. Then, look up and to the right to find a Hookshot target. Use the 
Hookshot to get onto the higher ledge, then open the chest to get the 2nd 
Stray Fairy. Next, drop back down to the lower area and become Goron Link, 
then walk across the lava to the other side. Avoid the Armos and open the 
chest at the back of the room to get the Map. Now, wake up the 2 Armos near 
the chest and the two in the lava, then defeat them all to make another chest 
appear. Open it to get a Key. Now, go back upstairs to the previous room. 
There, go across the room and use the Key to unlock the door and enter the 
next room. Here, become Zora Link and jump in the the water. Swim east under 
the bridge, but before you reach the wall, swim lower, then come up and jump 
out of the water. If you do it right, you should land on the ledge at the 
other side (this is the only way to get up there). Surface at the other side. 
Open the chest there to get a Key.

Now, dive in the water and defeat the Dexihand hanging above a passageway 
nearby. Then, swim through that passage into the next room. There, sink to 
the bottom of the water and defeat the enemies swimming around. Carefully 
walk around the spiked mines and press the switch to make a chest appear on 
the upside-down ledge above you (you'll be able to open it later). Next, swim 
back up to the surface and climb onto the platform going through the middle 
of the room. Become regular Link and stand in the light on the platform, then 
use your Mirror Shield to reflect the light onto the mirror at the south end 
of the room. Hold your shield out and reflect light onto the mirror for a 
while, then after you've "charged" the mirror enough, go down the path and 
stand in the light being shone off the charged mirror. Reflect that light 
onto the blue block to make it disappear, then open the chest to the left to 
get the Compass. Now, go back north across the path and unlock the door at 
the other side, then enter the new room. In this room, go up and you'll find 
a bunch of Black Boes that are really annoying. Defeat them, then become 
Goron Link and punch out all those stone things stacked on each other. Become 
regular Link and put on the Stone Mask, then reflect the light with your 
Mirror Shield onto the mirror to the right. Charge up the mirror for a while, 
then go up into the light beam and shine it on the blue block to make it 
disappear. Go into that new passageway while wearing the Stone Mask to avoid 
fighting a Nejiron, then open the chest to get Stray Fairy #3. Then, get back 
to the beam of sunlight in the main part of the room and reflect light on the 
sun symbols on the walls to the left and right. Reflect light on the right 
one to make a chest appear, then open it to get Stray Fairy #4. Now, get back 
to the light and start charging up the left mirror. After charging for about 
a minute, go into the beam of light coming from the mirror and reflect that 
light onto the mirror in the upper-left corner of the room. Charge up the 
second mirror with light from the first one as long as you can, then stand in 
the second mirror's light and reflect it onto the blue block to get rid of 
it.

After you remove the block, go north and through the door to reach the next 
room. Here, become Goron Link and climb down the ladder up ahead to reach the 
lower area. There, get onto the switch to the left and pound it to remove the 
flames surrounding another switch for a short amount of time. As soon as you 
pound this switch. Quickly roll to the north end of the room, then go left 
around the bend. Go south and hit the second switch to make the flames 
surrounding a chest disappear (if you're not quick enough, just keep trying). 
After you do that, get back to the other side of the room and climb the 
ladder to the higher ledge. Now, become Deku Link and dive into the Deku 
Flower. Fly north and catch the wind boost, then land on the ledge to the 
left. Collect all the rupees and open the chest to get Stray Fairy #5. Then, 
jump off the ledge and into the wind gust again. Fly north to the next wind 
tunnel, then catch the wind and make the U-turn around the bend. Fly south to 
the next wind tunnel up ahead, then get onto the next ledge and open the 
chest to get Stray Fairy #6. After that, become regular Link and go west into 
the next room. Here, go up and the Garo Master will appear. Read the Mini-
Bosses section for help on defeating it. After you beat it, open the large 
chest that appears to get the Light Arrows! Now, go through the south door 
and into the next room. There, go forward and climb onto the ledge in front 
of you. Then, put on the Stone Mask and jump to the next ledge with the 
masked Hiploop. Pull its mask off with the Hookshot, then run in and defeat 
it with your Sword. After that, continue up and into the next room. Here, go 
up and you'll fight an Eyegore. Read the Mini-Bosses section to find out how 
to defeat it. After you beat it, a chest will appear. Go north and open it to 
get Stray Fairy #7. Next, go south to the other end and enter the next room. 
Here, shield yourself from the Real Bombchu, then drop down to the lower 
area. Look for a sun switch on the wall, then shoot it with a Light Arrow to 
make a chest appear on the upside-down ledge above you. Now, climb up the 
ladder to get to the upper area, then continue south to get outside.

Stone Tower
-----------

When you're outside of the temple, stand on the west switch and create a 
shell on it. Then, become Zora Link and create a shell on the middle switch. 
Now, become regular Link and walk onto the first block. From there, jump onto 
the middle block and turn around to face the temple. Look below the platform 
and you'll see a red mark on the wall. Shoot it with a Light Arrow to flip 
the temple upside-down. After you land again in the upside-down tower, jump 
across the blocks to the south and enter the temple again.

Stone Tower Temple (Upside-Down)
--------------------------------

When you enter the flipped version of this temple, go straight down the path 
and open the chest in the middle to get the 8th Stray Fairy. Then, take the 
east path and enter the next room. There, shoot a Light Arrow to make the 
blue block disappear, then follow the path to the end. Become Deku Link and 
use the Deku Flower to fly into the wind gust to the right. Fly to the top of 
the room, then stay against the south wall and float down towards the floor 
again. Fly into the small room near the bottom, then turn around and look for 
a frozen eye switch beneath the north platform. Shoot it with a Fire Arrow to 
make a chest appear on the ledge you're on. Open it to get Stray Fairy #9, 
then become Deku Link and fly in the wind gust on the east side of the room 
to get to the ceiling. Land on a ledge against the east wall and stand on the 
switch there, then become regular Link and leave a shell on the switch. Then, 
become Deku Link and use the flower to fly over to the wind gust at the other 
side of the room. Once at the top of that gust, fly to the south ledge and 
open the chest to get Stray Fairy #10. Next, become regular Link and put on 
the Stone Mask, then drop down to the bridge below. Pull the mask off the 
Hiploop with the Hookshot, then defeat it with your sword. After that, take 
the path north and west to a switch. Press the switch to make a chest appear 
at the south end of the bridge. Go back across and open the chest to get a 
Key. Now, go back on the bridge and look up to see a sun switch on the south 
wall. Shoot it with a Light Arrow to make a chest appear on the flipped side, 
then become Deku Link and jump into the west wind gust to reach the ceiling. 
Then, fly onto the northwest ledge and avoid the spiked mines, then unlock 
the door and enter that room as regular Link. Here, shoot a Light Arrow at 
the spider mark on the wall across the room to flip the room around. Become 
Goron Link and walk across the lava, then go against the west wall and become 
regular Link. Shoot that mark with a Light Arrow to flip the room again, then 
continue into the next room.

In this room, put on the Stone Mask and drop down to the northeast corner of 
the room to find a gray block. Shoot the spider mark to flip the room, then 
push the block towards the center area of the room. Flip the room again, and 
then push the block across the center to the wall at the other side of the 
room. Flip the room and push the block as far to the west as it'll go, then 
flip the room again. Now, push the block into the switch on the floor to open 
the west door. Climb onto the block and jump onto the ledge, then enter the 
next room. Here, you'll fight the Wizrobe mini-boss again, so read that 
section to find out how to win. After you beat it, a chest will appear on the 
higher ledge. Hookshot up to it and open it to get Stray Fairy #11. Now, go 
west and down the stairs to the first floor. Here, defeat the Poe in front of 
you, then become Deku Link and use the Deku Flower to reach the next ledge. 
Once there, use the Deku Flower to fly to the southeast ledge. Become regular 
Link and put on the Stone Mask. Then, defeat the 4 Death Armos floating 
around here (you're going to have to take off the mask to get them to crash 
into the ground and die after you flip them over). Defeat them all, then push 
the switch on the south ledge to make the flames surrounding a nearby chest 
disappear. Create a shell with the Elegy of Emptiness on the switch, then go 
and open the chest to get a Key. Now, get back to the northeast area of the 
room by the Deku Flower and Poes. Go through the east door into the previous 
room. There, turn right and go through that door to reach the following room. 
Here, put on the Stone Mask and jump to the south ledge by the Death Armos. 
Shoot its chest or back with a Light Arrow, then take off the mask to make it 
flip over and try to crush you. Get out of the way until after it explodes, 
then step on the nearby switch to make a chest appear on the flipped side of 
the temple. Now, jump back to the northwest ledge and go back into that room. 
In this room, go up to the Deku Flower and shoot the spiked mines with arrows 
so they crash into each other and explode.

Then, become Deku Link and use the flower to fly onto the ledge north of the 
spiked mines. From there, avoid the flying pots and use the second Deku 
Flower to fly to the east ledge, then enter the next room. Here, go straight 
through this room and defeat the Blue Bubbles along the way. Go through the 
door at the other side to reach the following room. Here, become regular Link 
and go up to encounter Gomess. Read the Mini-Bosses section for help on 
defeating it. After the fight, the doors will become unlocked. Go through the 
east door and open the chest inside to get the Boss Key. Now, play the Song 
of Soaring to warp back to the temple entrance. When you arrive at the 
entrance, go straight towards the middle of the room. Look up and Tatl will 
point out that you can use the Hookshot on the high chest. Hookshot up to the 
highest chest to land on the high ledge, then unlock the door and enter the 
next room. Here, go up and defeat the Eyegore like you did earlier in the 
temple. After that, open the chest that appears to get the Giant's Mask! Now, 
go north and into the next room. Hit the crystal switch with the Hookshot or 
an arrow to make a chest appear on the ceiling. Then, play the Song of 
Soaring and warp to the dungeon entrance again. Once there, go back outside 
of the temple.

Stone Tower
-----------

When you get out here again, jump across a few of the blocks, then turn 
around. Look up and shoot a Light Arrow at that red mark to flip the temple 
over to its original state. When you land on the next ledge, stand on the 
west switch (with your back to the temple) and create a shell of yourself 
there. Then, become Zora Link and do the same thing on the middle switch. 
After that, stand on the right switch and become Goron Link, then make a 
shell there. Now, become regular Link and jump across those blocks and 
reenter the temple.

Stone Tower Temple (Normal)
---------------------------

When you enter the temple again, put on the Stone Mask and head north. Drop 
down into the pit in front of you and open the chest to get Stray Fairy #12. 
Now, climb back up to the higher area and go through the west door to reach 
the next room. In this room, defeat the Real Bombchus, then go directly west 
to a bunch of large crates. Roll into them to reveal small crates behind 
them. Carry those small ones and place them on two of the switches in the 
room. Then, stand on the third small switch and create a shell on it. Next, 
get to the large switch and become Goron Link, then create a shell on it. 
Now, get to the northeast area of the room and go up through the now open 
gate. Go through the east door into the next room. Here, become Zora Link and 
dive into the water. Swim under the bridge, then swim down and up to jump 
onto the ledge at the other side. Become regular Link and shoot a Light Arrow 
at the blue block to the north, then turn back into Zora Link. Now, jump in 
the water and swim around, then jump onto the ledge where that block was. 
Become regular Link and put on the Stone Mask to avoid being seen by the 
Beamos. Then, bomb the Beamos and hit the crystal switch behind it to cause a 
chest to appear at the other side of the room. Now, become Zora Link and swim 
under the bridge and jump onto the ledge at the other side. There, use the 
Light Arrow to shoot the blue block. Go in that little area and destroy the 
Beamos as regular Link, then open the chest to get Stray Fairy #13. Next, 
become Zora Link yet again and dive in the water. Defeat the Dexihand at the 
other side and swim through that passage to the next room. Here, defeat the 
underwater creatures, then swim upward and look for the sun switch on the 
wall. Stand on the ledge above it and open the chest to get Stray Fairy #14. 
Now, swim up to the surface and climb onto the platform there, then go north 
into the next room. Here, just avoid all the Black Boes and Nejirons and 
continue north into the following room. In this room, become Deku Link and 
use the Deku Flower to fly into the first wind gust. Fly up and around this 
room by using the wind gusts. When you reach the ledge at the end, go right 
and into the next room.

In this room, just go up and left through the door into the next room. Here, 
drop down to the lower area, then open the chest to the south to get the 15th 
and final Stray Fairy! Now, play the Song of Soaring to warp to the temple 
entrance. Back at the entrance, turn around and go back outside again, then 
flip the temple upside-down again and reenter it (if you don't remember how 
to do that, scroll up a little bit to where I explained it before).

Stone Tower Temple (Upside-Down)
--------------------------------

When you enter the temple again, go north to the center of the room. Then, 
look straight up and Hookshot to the chest that Tatl is floating around and 
turning green. When you get to the higher ledge, go north into the next room. 
Here, just continue straight ahead into the following room. In this next 
room, aim up at the chest on the ceiling and Hookshot up to it. On the higher 
ledge, wait for the spiked log to come near you, then Hookshot onto the 
target further ahead on the ceiling. Then, continue north and drop down to 
the ground. Go up and open the door with the Boss Key, then enter that room. 
In this room, go up and drop into the pit in the middle of the room. You'll 
land outside in a large, sandy arena. Two giant centipede-type creatures 
known as Twinmold will come out and the battle will begin. Read the Bosses 
section for help on defeating them. After you win, collect the Heart 
Container and step into the light to get Twinmold's Remains. Now, go through 
the whole scene with Tatl talking to the gods and asking for their help now. 
After that's all over, the evil will be removed from the entire Ikana area 
and you'll be dropped off outside of the Stone Tower.

Ikana Canyon
------------

When you arrive here again, go south and enter the cave to the east, which is 
the Fairy's Fountain. Go up to the fountain and the Stray Fairies will come 
together and the Great Fairy will appear. She'll give you the Great Fairy's 
Sword as thanks, and that's a great reward! After she leaves, go back and 
exit this cave. Outside, play the Song of Soaring and warp to Clock Town.

Clock Town
----------

When you arrive at Clock Town, there's really nothing left for you to do 
since you've obtained all the masks by now and have every item around. Now 
you have to wait until the Final Night to progress in the game. So, go and 
collect any Heart Pieces or Masks you may have missed somehow, and buy some 
Red and Green Potions as well. When it reaches 12AM on the Final Night, the 
clock tower in South Clock Town will open. At that point, get to the right 
side of the tower and walk up the ramp, then jump onto the ledge. Then, go up 
the stairs to the top of the clock tower. There, you'll meet Skull Kid and 
Tael again. After the whole scene is over and the timer starts counting down, 
play the Oath to Order on the Ocarina to summon the four giants from each 
region of Termina. They will all come together and stop the moon completely, 
saving Clock Town. The effects of the song cause the Majora's Mask to come 
alive and remove itself from Skull Kid. It'll then disappear into the moon 
and the moon will come to life. After a little argument, Tatl decides to come 
with you to the moon and you both leave.

The Moon
--------

When you arrive on the moon, you'll be in an unusually bright and grassy area 
with a large tree up ahead. The timer is also gone, so you no longer have 
time limits to get through here. There's a large tree out in the distance, so 
run towards it. There, you'll find four kids with each of the Remains Masks 
on, running around the tree. It helps if you have all 23 Masks by now, that 
way you can get the ultimate mask in a little while. Anyway, look for the 
child with the Odolwa's Remains mask on (if you need help, look at the 
Remains Mask on the submenu) and talk to him. Give him one of your masks and 
he'll play hide-and-seek with you, then he'll disappear into the Deku 
Dungeon.

Deku Dungeon
------------

In this dungeon, put on the Deku Mask and use the Deku Flower to fly onto the 
rotating ledge with Deku Flowers on either end of it. Use a flower to fly 
onto a ledge further ahead with the Gossip Stone on it. Use the Deku Flower 
there to fly to the next rotating ledge. Watch out when you're on that ledge 
because there's a spiked ledge rotating just above the one you're on and 
it'll knock you off if you're not careful. Get onto the side of that spinning 
ledge with the gold flower, then use it to fly northwest onto the next ledge 
(fly to the northeast one to get a Heart Piece). Then, go through the door 
into the room where the child was hiding. Talk to him and give him another 
mask and you'll be taken outside again.

The Moon
--------

When you get back out here, run back to the tree to find only three children 
running around the tree. Find the one with the Goht Remains Mask and talk to 
him, then give him 2 of your regular masks. You'll then be warped to the 
Goron Dungeon.

Goron Dungeon
-------------

When you enter this dungeon, put on the Goron Mask and get against the wall 
to the left between the pots. Then, roll straight down the path to gain full 
speed (the spikes come out of you) and let go of the Control Stick and just 
hold A. Continue rolling and jump the first ramp, then bounce off the chests 
and jump the ramp to the left. Then, bounce off those chests and continue 
north across a few more ramps to the chests at the end. Bounce off those 
chests and jump the ramp to the right. When you land, stop rolling and 
destroy the green pots in front of you to recover some magic. Now, walk south 
along the catwalk to the middle area with the two Gossip Stones and the warp 
tile. Stand to the east of the warp tile and face directly east to the icy 
ledge at the end. Roll straight down the path and make the jump at the end, 
then go through the door to the next room. There, talk to the child and give 
him two more masks and you'll be warped back outside again.

The Moon
--------

Back outside, run up to the tree and there will only be two children running 
around. Find the one with the Gyorg Remains Mask on and talk to him. Give him 
3 regular masks and you'll be sent to the Zora Dungeon.

Zora Dungeon
------------

When you enter this dungeon, go up and become Zora Link, then jump into the 
water to your right. Let the current push you through the first left tunnel. 
Follow it and take the second right tunnel you come across. At the next tube 
split, take the right tube and you should come to the end. Talk to the child 
and give him 3 more masks, then you'll be taken outside again.

The Moon
--------

Back on the Moon, run up towards the large tree like before. This time, talk 
to the only child running around with the Twinmold Remains Mask on, then give 
him 4 of your regular masks. You will then be taken into the Link Dungeon.

Link Dungeon
------------

This is the last of the four dungeons on the Moon to go through. This time, 
you're meant to go through here as regular Link. When you arrive, go through 
the nearby door to the next room. Defeat the Dinofols to unlock the door, 
then go north into the following room. Go around the Gossip Stone and enter 
the room behind it to face a Garo Master. Defeat it, then Hookshot onto the 
chest on the higher ledge and open it to get some arrows. Now, go up into the 
next room with the Gossip Stone. Continue into the following room and defeat 
the Iron Knuckle that you encounter. Open the chest that appears to get 
Bombchus. Now, look up at the right wall to find a large crack in it. Pull 
out a Bombchu and wait a few seconds, then put it down and let it climb up 
the wall. If you're lucky, it should explode right as it passes over the 
cracked wall. After that, shoot the eye switch that's revealed to make a 
ladder appear leading up to the higher ledge. Climb up it and go into the 
next room. Go up and collect the final Heart Piece, then look up at the 
ceiling to see another crack. Send a Bombchu up there to destroy the hole, 
then shoot the eye switch with a Fire Arrow to melt the ice on the switch and 
activate it as well. Go through the now open the door and talk to the child 
there. Give him 4 more masks, leaving you with only the 3 transformation 
masks. You will then be sent back outside.

The Moon
--------

When you get out here yet again, run up to the tree and you'll notice that 
there are no more children running around. Look for the child sitting in 
front of the tree wearing Majora's Mask. Talk to the kid and choose to play 
with him. Since you don't have anymore regular masks (if you collected all 20 
regular Masks, you should've already given them to the children of the past 4 
dungeons), this kid will give you the Fierce Deity's Mask. You will then warp 
into a room and the Remains Masks will leave your body and stick to the 
walls. Now, you'll have to fight Majora's Mask, which is the final boss. Read 
the Bosses section for help on defeating all its forms. After that, you've 
beaten the boss and congratulations on beating this game!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  6. Enemies  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Armos
    Tatl Description: You know about the Armos, right? Shhhh! Don't touch it!
                      Blow it up before it wakes, please!
    Strategy: This armored statue acts like it's just a regular stone statue,
              but if you come near it, it'll come to life and attack. Defeat
              it by bombing it, then get away before it explodes!

Bad Bat
    Tatl Description: It's a Bad Bat. If you don't do something before it
                      swoops down on you...Well, just don't come running to
                      me!
    Strategy: This small, black bat flies around in the air, then swoops down
              at you to attack. Block it with your shield or attack it
              quickly to avoid getting hit.

Beamos
    Tatl Description: What?! You don't know about the Beamos? Don't let its
                      beam scare you. Just give it a good blast!
    Strategy: This rotating statue with an eye on one side can be annoying at
              times. It shoots a laser when it sees you, but you can block it
              with your Mirror Shield. Destroy this statue by using bombs to
              make it crumble.

Bio Deku Baba
    Tatl Description: Bio Deku Baba... Just calm down and aim carefully! And
                      don't blame me if one hit doesn't get rid of it!
    Strategy: This upside-down hanging plant is one pain in the neck to
              fight. If you come near it, it'll extend towards you quickly to
              attack. Stay at a distance and hit it with arrows to kill this
              dangerous plant.

Black Boe
    Tatl Description: It's a Black Boe... Just calm down and attack it! Look,
                      there are just a lot of them, that's all.
    Strategy: This black creature is usually found in packs of 5 or 6 of them
              at once. When you come near, they all try to attack, so quickly
              dispose of them with your Sword.

Blue Bubble
    Tatl Description: That's a Blue Bubble! Quick! Run! Don't let it curse
                      you! If it comes after you, defend yourself to block
                      it!
    Strategy: You really wouldn't want this creature to make contact with
              you! It's a flying skull with a bluish flame surrounding it at
              all times. If it hits you, you will be unable to use your
              Sword. Use the Song of Storms to cure that curse or wait until
              it wears off.

Blue Chuchu
    Tatl Description: Blue Chuchu... This doesn't have anything inside of it,
                      so it's really just a blob of water.
    Strategy: This version of the Chuchu is just as easy to beat as the rest
              of them. However, this one doesn't have any items inside of it,
              so when you beat it, don't expect to get anything out of it.

Blue Tektite
    Tatl Description: Don't you know about the Blue Tektite? Use Z Targeting
                      to follow it as it bounces.
    Strategy: This blue, spider-type enemy isn't really too much of a problem
              for you. It just bounces around and tries to jump on you, but
              you can easily avoid it. Just attack it quickly to get rid of
              this nuisance fast.

Death Armos
    Tatl Description: Death Armos, a temple guard... Look at that red mark on
                      its chest! I know you've seen something like that
                      before...
    Strategy: This floating version of the Armos is even worse than the
              regular one. If you come near, it'll float towards you and try
              to crush you from above. Shoot its body with a Light Arrow,
              then watch out as it flips over and tries to crush you. Get out
              of the way and it'll explode on the floor.

Deep Python
    Tatl Description: It's a Deep Python. Get close to it and stun it. If you
                      fail, it'll getcha!
    Strategy: This giant water-type serpent inhabits the Pinnacle Rock area.
              They live in underwater caves and come out to attack if you get
              close. Defeat it as Zora Link by using the Barrier attack (B +
              R) twice.

Deku Baba (Short version)
    Tatl Description: Don't tell me you don't know about the Deku Baba! Cut
                      it down when it has extended its body and Deku Nuts or
                      Sticks will come out.
    Strategy: This Deku Baba is the smaller type, but this one actually
              attacks you! When you get close, it'll extend its body to try
              and hit you, so watch out. Attack it with a couple hits to
              defeat it and get anything it leaves behind.

Deku Baba (Tall version)
    Tatl Description: Isn't that a Deku Baba? But it looks a little
                      withered... Just cut it. You should at least get a Deku
                      Stick out of it.
    Strategy: When you come near this bluish plant, it'll come out of the
              ground and try to attack you. Just cut it down quickly and take
              the Deku Stick(s) it may leave behind.

Desbreko
    Tatl Description: It's a Desbreko. Once it bites you, it's not going to
                      want to let go, I haaaate this thing!
    Strategy: This creature is a larger and more powerful version of the
              Skullfish enemy. Try to stay away from it since it'll pursue
              you when you get near. I advise you to hit it from far away as
              Zora Link, or with arrows/the Hookshot.

Dexihand
    Tatl Description: It's a Dexihand. Just be careful... Look, it's not my
                      fault if you get too close and it grabs you!
    Strategy: This long and thin arm with a hand attached to it will try to
              grab you when you swim near it. Defeat it quickly by using Zora
              Link's special Boomerang attack from a distance.

Dinofols
    Tatl Description: What?! Don't you know about the Dinofols? Use targeting
                      methods while defending. And watch out for its fiery
                      breath!
    Strategy: This sword-wielding dinosaur enemy jumps at you to attack with
              its sword. Attack it with your sword and it'll retaliate by
              breathing fire at you. Watch out for the fire and keep
              attacking when it gets close to defeat it.

Dragonfly
    Tatl Description: Isn't that a Dragonfly? As long as you stay away from
                      its tail, it's no big danger.
    Strategy: This flying creature with the electrifying tail shouldn't be
              too much of a problem for you. Just attack it when it comes
              near, or finish it off from far away with a long-range weapon.

Eeno
    Tatl Description: That's an Eeno. It's persistent! ...And it's
                      susceptible to heat!
    Strategy: This snowy-type creature comes out of the ground to attack if
              you come near it. It's fairly easy to defeat since it's slow
              moving, but it attacks by throwing snowballs at you. Block them
              with your shield and defeat it quickly with your sword. Fiery
              attacks will also kill it quicker.

Fire Keese
    Tatl Description: Don't tell me you don't know about the Fire Keese!
                      Defeat it before it swoops down on you. I do not want
                      to roast!
    Strategy: This is the version of the Keese that has fire surrounding it.
              If it touches you, you'll take damage because of the fire. Stay
              away from it and shoot it down with arrows from a distance.

Floormaster
    Tatl Description: You know the Floormaster, right? If you don't do
                      something about its pieces before they can reunite...
    Strategy: This giant walking hand is somewhat different than the
              Wallmaster enemy. This version doesn't pull you back to the
              entrance or anything, but its ramming attack really hurts!
              Attack it with your Sword to split it into 3 pieces, then
              quickly destroy those pieces before they come together again.
              You can also reflect light on it with your Mirror Shield to get
              the same effect as if you used a Sword to attack.

Freezard
    Tatl Description: Don't tell me you don't know about the Freezard! Watch
                      out for its icy breath! I hate the c-c-cold!
    Strategy: This icy statue of an enemy blows icy breath in a specific
              direction. If you step in that breath, you will become frozen
              for a few moments. Defeat this icy guy from far away, or just
              come in close and attack it.

Garo
    Tatl Description: It said that it's a Garo... Just concentrate on
                      blocking and dodging those sharp swords!
    Strategy: This masked ninja enemy only appears when you wear Garo's Mask
              and walk around in certain sections of Ikana. It'll create a
              circle of fire around the battlefield so you can't escape it
              either. Just avoid its swords and attack it with your sword to
              defeat it and learn some helpful hint.

Giant Bee
    Tatl Description: That's a Giant Bee. Don't ask me! You can either fight
                      or run... It's up to you.
    Strategy: This large-sized bee isn't something to really worry about.
              Just stay away from it if you don't want to get hurt, or run in
              and kill it quickly with the sword.

Gibdo
    Tatl Description: It's a Gibdo. You won't be able to move if it glares at
                      you, so be careful! Got it?
    Strategy: This mummy that walks around in the later areas of the game can
              be quite annoying. If you go near it, it'll stop you in your
              tracks and it'll jump on you, causing you to slowly lose
              hearts. Shake it off and attack from a distance with Fire
              Arrows.

Green Chuchu
    Tatl Description: That's a Green Chuchu. It's nothing to be afraid of...
                      It usually has something in its stomach that's of use.
    Strategy: This green-colored version of the Red Chuchu is just like its
              other counterpart. It usually has an item inside of it, and you
              can kill it easily with your sword.

Guay
    Tatl Description: It's a Guay. You don't know about this one? Just attack
                      it before it swoops down on you. That's all there is to
                      it.
    Strategy: This black bird is found in many areas of the game. If you go
              near it, it'll swoop down to attack you. When it comes close,
              just kill it with your sword.

Hiploop
    Tatl Description: Hiploops are hotheaded, so they'll charge if you look
                      it in the eye. If it comes at you, assume the defensive
                      position.
    Tatl Description (if wearing mask): It's a Hiploop. Quickly dodge it if
                                        it charges at you. But can't you
                                        first do something about that mask
                                        it's wearing?
    Strategy: This creature can be pretty annoying whenever you encounter it.
              When you come near, it'll turn towards you, revealing its giant
              eye. Turn away immediately or it'll charge at you. As Deku
              Link, attack it to stun it temporarily, then shoot a bubble at
              it to cause damage. Repeat that a second time to kill this
              enemy.

Ice Keese
    Tatl Description: You know about the Ice Keese, right? Destroy it before
                      it swoops down on you, I hate the c-c-cold!
    Strategy: This version of the Keese has a bluish color surrounding it. If
              it touches you, you will become frozen for a few moments.
              Defeat this flying menace from far away to avoid the icy
              attack.

Iron Knuckle
    Tatl Description: You know about the Iron Knuckle, right? Stay away from
                      its ax attack, then look for a chance to retaliate.
    Strategy: This armored knight is strange because it looks lifeless until
              you try attacking it. At that moment, it'll come to life and
              attack you with its ax. Be quick and avoid the attacks, then
              hit it from behind with your Sword. Continue that type of
              attack pattern to beat it.

Keese
    Tatl Description: What?! Don't you know about the Keese? Use Z Targeting
                      when it gets close. Even if it flies off, I'll follow
                      it for you.
    Strategy: This black bat is found mainly in the dungeons, unlike the Bad
              Bat. Take the same precautions as you would with any other
              flying creature. Just Z Target it and attack when it comes
              close enough to quickly defeat it.

Leever
    Tatl Description: You know about the Leever, right? It actually moves
                      pretty fast. That's not exactly good news, is it?
    Strategy: This green creature comes out of the ground in sandy areas. If
              you come near, it'll chase you away really fast. I'd recommend
              you finish it off from far away to avoid damage.

Like Like
    Tatl Description: You know about the Like Like, right? It eats whatever
                      you're carrying. You'd better defeat it if you want
                      your stuff back.
    Strategy: This blob-like creature can be very annoying since it'll
              swallow you whole and cause damage. It'll also take your shield
              if you are regular Link, so be careful and defeat this creature
              quickly to avoid losing your items!

Mad Scrub
    Tatl Description: That's one Mad Scrub! Even though it's weak, it sure
                      likes to attack!
    Strategy: This Deku Scrub pops out of flowers in the ground and spits
              nuts at you to attack. Deflect them with your shield, or get in
              close and kill it quickly with your sword.

Mini Baba
    Tatl Description: That's a Mini Baba. It won't attack unless you get too
                      close to it, so watch your step!
    Strategy: This smaller version of the Deku Baba isn't too hard to avoid.
              Just attack it once with your sword to get a Deku Nut from it
              at least.

Nejiron
    Tatl Description: That's a Nejiron. Don't get too close to it. Sniff...
                      Sniff... It smells like gun powder!
    Strategy: This tan-colored rock enemy comes out of the ground in certain
              areas. It won't really do anything to you, but if you attack
              it, it'll explode in your face! Destroy it from far away using
              arrows, or wear the Stone Mask to avoid it altogether.

Octorok
    Tatl Description: You know about the Octorok, right? All you have to do
                      is deflect that rock it spits out.
    Strategy: This octopus-type creature pops out of the water and spits
              rocks in your direction. Either avoid the rocks, or deflect
              them with your shield.

Pea Hat
    Tatl Description: Don't tell me you don't know about the Pea Hat! Just
                      remember that its root area is soft!
    Strategy: This weird creature is a giant thing that sits on the ground
              for a while. It will then get up and fly in the air, spinning
              towards you to try and cause damage. When it gets close, attack
              the point underneath its body to hurt it.

Pea Hat Larva
    Tatl Description: Pea Hat Larva... You don't know about it? If it comes
                      at you, get in the defensive position to knock it back!
    Strategy: This smaller version of the Pea Hat comes out to attack if you
              try attacking the regular Pea Hat when it's not moving. Simply
              defeat these things with your sword when they come near you.

Poe
    Tatl Description: What?! You don't know about the Poe? If you try to use
                      Z Targeting, it vanishes.
    Strategy: This ghostly creature floats around in a room, then disappears
              if you try Z Targeting it. Shoot it with arrows or hit it with
              your sword to defeat it.

Real Bombchu
    Tatl Description: That's a Real Bombchu! It runs at you with its pack of
                      explosives, so protect yourself or else!
    Strategy: Just as its description implies, this creature has a bomb on
              its tail. It'll charge at you, then explode upon impact to
              cause you damage. Just avoid it or use a long-distance weapon
              to kill it.

Red Bubble
    Tatl Description: What?! You don't know about the Red Bubble? If it comes
                      at you, get in the defensive position to bounce it
                      back...Got it?
    Strategy: This red version of the Bubble enemy is surrounded by fire, and
              it won't prevent you from using your sword for a while. When it
              comes at you, raise your shield to make its fire disappear and
              it'll bounce around on the floor. Then, just quickly kill it
              with one of your weapons.

Red Chuchu
    Tatl Description: That's a Red Chuchu. It's nothing really to be afraid
                      of! It's not unusual to find something in its stomach
                      that might be of use.
    Strategy: Here's a rather simple enemy found in the Termina Field. It
              contains a small item in its transparent stomach, and you can
              defeat it quickly with a single sword slash to gain that item.

ReDead
    Tatl Description: ReDead... If it catches you in its paralyzing glare,
                      you won't be able to move. Shake it off if you get
                      caught!
    Strategy: This enemy isn't really that much different than the Gibdo. If
              you come near it, it'll stop you in your tracks and jump on
              you, causing you to take damage. However, you can avoid having
              to battle it by wearing the Captain's Hat or the Gibdo Mask.

Shell Blade
    Tatl Description: Don't tell me you don't know about the Shell Blade!
                      It's impossible to beat it if you aim for anything but
                      its ligament inside the shell.
    Strategy: This shelled fish is really annoying because if you come near
              it, it'll swim towards you and try to cause damage. The only
              way to damage it is by hitting its soft inside, so get close to
              get it to open, then shoot an arrow at it.

Skullfish
    Tatl Description: Isn't that a Skullfish? Look, don't ask me about
                      everything, all right?
    Strategy: This skeleton-type fish is found in the watery parts of the
              game. As Zora Link, easily take them out by using the boomerang
              attack or by punching them out.

Skulltula
    Tatl Description: What?! You don't even know about the Skulltula? It's
                      protected by a hard shell, but its stomach is soft!
    Strategy: When this creature comes down from the ceiling, wait for it to
              turn around to see its softer, unprotected backside. Attack
              that part with the Sword or another weapon until you defeat it.

Snapper
    Tatl Description: It's a Snapper! The way these things move, they never
                      expose the weak part of their body!
    Strategy: This turtle enemy has an armored shell surrounding it. It'll
              spin around and try to move around and hit you. Hit it with a
              Bomb or use the Blast Mask to flip it over, then use your Sword
              to quickly kill it.

Stalchild
    Tatl Description: It's a Stalchild. They were the cursed soldiers of the
                      Kingdom of Ikana...What are you gonna do?
    Strategy: This skeleton-type enemy really isn't something to worry about
              at all. One quick hit from your Gilded Sword should take it out
              right away!

Takkuri
    Tatl Description: It's a Takkuri. Run! This bird steals your items!
                      C'mon! What are you doing just standing around?!
    Strategy: This giant bird flies around in the south area of Termina
              Field. It'll follow you around and attack, which makes you lose
              items, hopefully just rupees. It can also steal better items
              from you as well. Z-Target it and keep using your sword to
              attack it while collecting all the rupees it drops.

Wallmaster
    Tatl Description: It's a Wallmaster! Keep an eye out for it by watching
                      for its shadow on the floor. Get it before it goes back
                      up to the ceiling.
    Strategy: In certain rooms of the game, you may suddenly see a round
              shadow coming from right above you. Move quickly and get out of
              the way since a giant hand known as the Wallmaster comes down.
              Defeat it with your sword when it lands, but be careful that
              you aren't too slow and it grabs you. It won't kill you, but
              it'll bring you to the entrance of the dungeon or cave you're
              in.

White Boe
    Tatl Description: It's a White Boe... Just calm down and attack it! Yeah,
                      yeah, yeah... There are just a lot of them, OK?
    Strategy: This white version of the Boe enemy is found in the snowy
              regions of the game. You usually find this creature in large
              groups, so quickly defeat them to avoid getting hurt.

White Wolfos
    Tatl Description: It's a White Wolfos. Lure it in and watch its
                      movements. It doesn't like its tail to be touched...
    Strategy: This white wolf-like creature is found mainly in the snowy
              regions of the game. It'll come near you and slash at you with
              its claws. If you try attacking when it's safe, it'll shield
              itself from attack. The best time to attack is right before it
              attacks you since it's not guarding itself.

Wolfos
    Tatl Description: So you don't know about the Wolfos? Lure it in and
                      watch its movements. It doesn't like its tail to be
                      touched.
    Strategy: This version of the Wolfos is just a weaker version of the
              White Wolfos. Wait until it tries to attack you, then quickly
              hit it to cause damage. Do that a couple more times to defeat
              it.

Yellow Chuchu
    Tatl Description: It's a Yellow Chuchu. That's nothing to sweat about. It
                      usually has something in its stomach that's of use...
    Strategy: This is the yellowish version of the common Chuchu creature of
              Termina Field. Instead of the other two Chuchus, this version
              carries arrows in its stomach, so defeat it and collect the
              goodies inside.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  7. Mini-Bosses  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Dinofols
    Found: Woodfall Temple
    Tatl Description: What?! Don't you know about the Dinofols? Use targeting
                      methods while defending. And watch out for its fiery
                      breath!
    Strategy: To make this battle easy, it's recommended you revert back to
              your regular form. It isn't too hard to beat this mini-boss
              anyway. Just use Z-Targeting and put up your shield to block
              its regular attack. After it attacks, run up and hit it with
              your Sword real quick. Back away to avoid getting hit by its
              fiery breath, then repeat the pattern until you defeat it.

Gekko
    Found: Woodfall Temple
    Tatl Description: That's a Gekko. And it's pretty angry! It's pretty
                      weak, too. It really shouldn't be making a fool of you.
    Strategy: Here's the second easy mini-boss in the Woodfall Temple for you
              to fight. Start by becoming regular Link, then start running
              around this room since the Gekko will follow you. When it
              stops, turn around and quickly attack it with your Sword.
              Repeat that 2 more times and it'll summon a Snapper to ride
              around the room for its next attack. When it comes near you,
              get out of the way and throw a bomb at it to flip over the
              Snapper. The Gekko will use this time to crawl around on the
              wall to get away. Use the Hero's Bow and shoot it down, then
              it'll ride the Snapper around again. Bomb the Snapper, then
              shoot the Gekko a couple more times to defeat it.

Wizrobe
    Found: Snowhead Temple
    Tatl Description: It's a Wizrobe. You'll get your chance right when it
                      starts to attack. Be on the lookout for it!
    Strategy: In this fight, there are 4 warp squares in each corner of the
              room, and Wizrobe can appear in any of them. When it appears,
              run up to it and attack with your Sword. You can also shoot it
              from a distance using arrows. When it appears, attack quickly
              or it'll shoot an ice ball at you, which will freeze you in
              place for a moment. It'll also freeze a part of the floor,
              which will also freeze you if touched. When you've nearly
              defeated it, it'll start sending fake clones of itself around
              the room to confuse you, then it'll hit you with an attack.
              Stay against a wall and shoot an arrow at the real thing when
              it stops. Continue that attack pattern until you defeat this
              mini-boss.

Wart
    Found: Great Bay Temple
    Tatl Description: It's a Wart. Once you've gotten rid of the spheres that
                      shield the main body, you can attack the eye.
    Strategy: This giant eyeball creature is a mini-boss in the Great Bay
              Temple. It is very similar to the Swamp Palace boss in Zelda: A
              Link to the Past. You'll see many round bubbles surrounding
              this creature as protection. Defeat it the same way by becoming
              regular Link and using the Hookshot from a distance to pull off
              the bubbles, one at a time. Each time you pull a bubble off,
              destroy it with your sword. Pull off most of the bubbles until
              you've cleared off most of this creature. Then, stay at a
              distance and wait for its eye to open. At that point, shoot an
              arrow into its eye to cause damage. Repeat this process until
              all the bubbles fall off and this creature moves around the
              room. Hit it with your Sword when it comes near until you kill
              it.

Gekko
    Found: Great Bay Temple
    Tatl Description: That's a Gekko. It gets itself all worked up and then
                      it just runs around. I hate it.
    Strategy: This fight against the Gekko is even worse than the first time
              you fought it back in Woodfall Temple. This time, there are
              giant blobs in the room that don't do anything to hurt you.
              Anyway, equip the Ice Arrows and wait for the giant blobs to
              surround the Gekko and bring it to the ceiling. At that point,
              quickly aim up and shoot the giant blob with an Ice Arrow to
              freeze it. When the blob shatters, quickly run in (it's
              preferred you have the Bunny Hood on) and attack the Gekko with
              your Sword. After you hit it, it'll jump to the ceiling again
              with the giant blob surrounding it. Repeat the above pattern of
              attacking until you defeat it.

Skull Keeta
    Found: Ikana Graveyard
    Tatl Description: Hurry! Chase him until you get your chance at him! But
                      if you get too close, you might regret it!
    Strategy: This creature known as Skull Keeta is the giant skeleton you
              woke up in the graveyard. It'll start walking up the path and
              you have to chase it, but there are several fire walls along
              the way that block you. To get past a fire wall, defeat the two
              Stalchildren that appear. Use the Bunny Hood to move faster
              through this area. When you get close enough, hit Skull Keeta
              with your Sword to start the real battle. Don't get close
              because it'll try punching you down. Attack it with your sword
              repeatedly, and it'll eventually start jumping in the air and
              try to crush you. Just avoid its attacks and keep your
              offensive strategy up until you defeat it.

Big Poe
    Found: In the room under the grave at Ikana Graveyard that you open up on
           the Final Night.
    Tatl Description: You know about the Big Poe, right? Knock it back to
                      stop it, then take your shot!
    Strategy: This giant ghost mini-boss isn't too much of a problem for you
              to worry about. It'll come close to you, then perform its spin
              attack to cause damage to you. Stay away from the attack, then
              Z-Target this ghost, then shoot an arrow at it when it's just
              floating around. After you cause damage, it'll reappear in
              another part of the room and continue using its spin attack.
              Repeat the same battle plan as before until you defeat the Big
              Poe.

Wizrobe
    Found: Ancient Castle of Ikana
    Tatl Description: It's a Wizrobe. You'll get your chance right when it
                      starts to attack. Be on the lookout for it!
    Strategy: When you fight the Wizrobe here, it's pretty much the same type
              of strategy as last time. There are 4 warp tiles in the room
              and Wizrobe will appear at one of them and shoot a fireball at
              you to attack. This time, the fireball splits into a couple
              pieces on impact with the floor to try and hit you if you're
              too close. When it appears on a tile, wait for it to stop
              spinning, then attack with your Sword to make it disappear.
              Repeat the above attack pattern a few more times, then Wizrobe
              will start sending clones of itself around as well. The way you
              can tell which one is real is like this: when the clones are
              moving around, the real Wizrobe is already on a tile casting
              its spell. Be on the lookout for that one so you can attack.
              Keep doing that until you defeat this mini-boss.

King's Servants
    Found: Ancient Castle of Ikana
    Tatl Description: Use Z Targeting methods while defending... The
                      "Unthinkable?" What could that possible be in a place
                      as dark as this?
    Strategy: There are two servants that will attack you in the castle
              throne room. When they come at you, avoid their weak sword
              attacks by blocking with your shield. Hit them a couple times
              each to temporarily stun them. Use that time to shoot Fire
              Arrows at the curtains to shine light in the room again. After
              that, your battle plan here will change. Attack these skeleton
              warriors a couple times to knock them down, then shine light on
              them to defeat them completely.

King of Ikana
    Found: Ancient Castle of Ikana
    Tatl Description: Stick with using the basic target methods while
                      defending. ...He's a different rank than those other
                      two lackeys, though...
    Strategy: The king of the old Ikana castle isn't too much of a threat
              either. It's basically a stronger version than the servants you
              just fought. He also has some stronger attacks to take you down
              with. He will make his head come off and chase you around the
              room, while the body can still attack you if you get close.
              Just attack when you get a chance until you eventually knock
              the king down. After that, shine light on him to win the
              battle.

Garo Master
    Found: Stone Tower Temple
    Tatl Description: That's the Garo Master... You can't fight him like an
                      ordinary Garo. Just dodge those swords...
    Strategy: This mini-boss is obviously the master of the Garos, judging by
              its size and appearance. It attacks by charging at you with its
              fire swords, and it moves very fast as well. I recommend you
              wear the Bunny Hood for this battle. After it charges at you,
              quickly turn around and attack it with your Sword when it's
              looking for you again. Then, quickly get away or you'll get
              caught up in a counter attack. Repeat the process a few more
              times until you defeat it, then get out of the way to avoid the
              bomb blast at the end.

Eyegore
    Found: Stone Tower Temple
    Tatl Description: It's an Eyegore. Simply attacking it is no good. I say
                      you should pay attention to the subtle changes in its
                      eye.
    Strategy: This bluish enemy with one eye isn't anything to worry about.
              If you come near it, it'll come to life and start marching
              towards you. Hit it with your sword and back away. Avoid the
              rock that it throws out, then shoot its yellow eye with an
              arrow to cause damage. Repeat that a few times to defeat it.

Wizrobe
    Found: Stone Tower Temple
    Tatl Description: It's a Wizrobe. You'll get your chance right when it
                      starts to attack. Be on the lookout for it!
    Strategy: This battle is just like the battle with Wizrobe in the Ikana
              Castle. The only difference this time is that there are small
              fiery rocks falling from the ceiling. Also, there are two tiles
              that are on high ledges you cannot reach, so you're just going
              to have to avoid Wizrobe up there. When the Wizrobe appears at
              any warp tile, wait until it stops spinning, then attack. If
              you're not in time, watch out for the fireball that'll be shot
              at you. Continue the above attack pattern until the clones
              start appearing. Avoid the clones and look for the real one,
              which is on a tile already, casting its spell. Attack that one,
              then continue the pattern until you defeat it.

Gomess
    Found: Stone Tower Temple
    Tatl Description: It's Gomess. There'll be no end to it if you can't get
                      those bats away from it. Does that shed any light on
                      the situation?
    Strategy: This black mini-boss is completely surrounded by bats as its
              protection. You must get the bats away from Gomess before you
              can attack. So, run around with the Bunny Hood on until the
              room flashes red and the bats come after you. Avoid the bats
              and attack Gomess a couple times with your Sword. Then, run
              away FAST because it'll come after you with its spinning
              scythe. You can also shoot Light Arrows at it when the bats are
              surrounding it to make them go away temporarily, so you can
              attack. Repeat the above battle plan until you defeat this dark
              creature.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  8. Bosses -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Odolwa
    Found: Woodfall Temple
    Tatl Description: If you get close to him, you'll be beaten! Do you
                      understand me?
    Strategy: Despite it's huge size, this boss shouldn't be too tough for
              you to defeat. His attacks don't take away much damage, plus
              it's not too hard to avoid this guy. He starts by running
              around and/or attacking you with his huge sword. After a few
              moments, he'll summon locusts and such to come attack you. You
              can easily defeat those and recover your health if needed.
              He'll also create a ring of fire, during which he may try to
              attack you. To attack him, shoot him with an arrow to stun him
              temporarily, then run in and attack with your Sword. Watch out
              for the blocks that fall from the ceiling, as well as those
              swarms of annoying flying insects. Repeat the above pattern of
              using arrows, then your Sword to attack. When you've nearly
              defeated Odolwa, he'll start moving faster and spinning around
              with his sword to attack. Avoid him and attack like before
              until you finally defeat this boss.

Goht
    Found: Snowhead Temple
    Tatl Description: Hurry! Chase after it. Even if it means throwing your
                      own body into it, do it so it'll stop!
    Strategy: This battle against the giant bull-like boss shouldn't be too
              hard for you to win. Goht runs around the room at high speeds
              to try and hurt you. Start by becoming Goron Link and rolling
              around the room to follow it. Stay at full speed when your
              spikes are out, then keep ramming it to cause damage with the
              spikes. Watch out for the boulders that Goht kicks up as it
              runs away. Try not to stay too close to it because it'll start
              shooting electrical bolts at you, which will stop you and cause
              damage. When this beast is almost defeated, it'll start
              shooting bolts and throwing bombs at you from behind, and
              spikes will fall from the ceiling. Destroy the green pots along
              the way to keep your magic high, then keep pursuing this
              creature and ramming it until you win.

Gyorg
    Found: Great Bay Temple
    Tatl Description (Before stunning): If you go near it now, you'll be
                      eaten! Aim at it from afar to weaken it.
    Tatl Description (After stunning): What are you doing?!? There's no time
                      to lose! Dive underwater and attack it! Hurry!
    Strategy: This giant fish is the hardest of the temple bosses in the game
              by far! It has several unavoidable and damaging attacks, and
              you'll definitely need some Red Potions and Fairies in Bottles
              if you're going to survive this hellish battle. Anyway, this
              boss does alot to try and make this battle hard. When you're
              standing on the middle platform, it'll jump out of the water
              and fly straight across the platform to hit you. If you're
              quick enough, you can get away from that attack. When you're at
              the edge of the platform, it'll ram the platform from under the
              water to try and knock you into the water. Be careful when
              moving around underwater because Gyorg will swim quickly and
              swallow you whole, then spit you out to cause some damage.
              There's really no way to avoid that one, unfortuately. Also,
              it'll sometimes release piranhas from its mouth to attack, but
              you can easily kill them with a Barrier attack. To attack it,
              become Zora Link and Z-Target Gyorg when it's in the water.
              Then, use the Boomerang attack to stun it underwater. At that
              point, quickly dive in the water and hit it with a Barrier
              attack to cause damage. If you run low on health, be sure to
              use a Red Potion or a Bottled Fairy if you have one. Then,
              repeat that above process a few more times to defeat Gyorg
              completely.

Twinmold
    Found: Stone Tower Temple
    Tatl Description: Just its head and tail aren't protected by its hard
                      exoskeleton, so aim carefully. If only you were the
                      same size as it...
    Strategy: This battle takes place in a large sandy arena against two
              large centipede-type creatures known as Twinmold. First thing
              you should do is put on the Giant's Mask and become the same
              size as the bosses. However, your magic drains rather quickly
              in this form, so make sure you have several Green Potions, or a
              Bottle of Chateau Romani since it gives you unlimited magic
              power until you warp back in time. These bosses aren't really
              too hard at all since all they do is move around in the sand
              and in the air. When you get a chance, hit either their head or
              tail to cause damage. When your magic runs out, use a Green
              Potion and become a giant again. Continue the above battle plan
              until you defeat both parts of Twinmold and win this battle.

Majora's Mask
    Found: The Moon
    Tatl Description: Remember your battles! When something resistant would
                      deflect your weapons, what was its backside usually
                      like?
    Strategy: Ok, this is the final boss of the entire game. It really isn't
              too hard as long as you know what to do and all. I recommend
              you make use of the Fierce Deity's Mask here for this battle
              (if you beat Majora's Mask in that form, you won't get as good
              of an ending as you would if you beat it as regular Link.
              Anyway, for Majora's Mask's first attack, it'll float around
              the room and occasionally spin sideways like a buzzsaw. Avoid
              that attack and follow it around as Link's ultimate form. After
              it stops spinning and floats upright, hit its back with your
              Sword. Repeat that attack a couple more times to start the next
              part of the battle. Now, the Remains Masks will come off the
              walls and start floating around, shooting energy balls at you.
              Hit each of those masks 3 times each to destroy them, then
              attack Majora's Mask like before. 3 hits to Majora's Mask will
              cause it to grow arms, legs, and a small head. It'll then
              become known as Majora's Incarnation.

Majora's Incarnation
    Found: The Moon
    Tatl Description: Remember your battles! When you fought things that ran
                      around, didn't you battle them using your own body?
    Strategy: This version of Majora's Mask is much worse than the first one.
              This time, it runs around the room really fast, and stops every
              now and then to shoot a barrage of energy balls at you to
              attack. To beat it with the Fierce Deity's Mask on, use Z-
              Targeting on it and wait for it to come near you, then attack
              with your sword. When it falls down, run in and continue the
              attacks with your sword. If it gets up, just knock it down
              again with the sword. Repeat that process until you defeat it
              and it morphs into Majora's Wrath.

Majora's Wrath
    Found: The Moon
    Tatl Description: Think about battles and weapons! When you had the
                      chance before an enemy was about to attack, didn't you
                      usually try shooting it?
    Strategy: This is the final version of Majora's Mask that you have to
              fight. In the start of this battle, this creature will stand
              still in the room for a moment before attacking you with its
              extremely long whips. It's impossible to avoid that attack, so
              stay at a good distance as much as you can. When it's staying
              still, become regular Link and shoot it with a Light Arrow to
              stun it. After that, run in and attack with your sword, then
              get away fast! Get back across the room and shoot it with
              another Light Arrow to stun, then use the sword to attack. If
              you run low on magic or health, use a Red or Green Potion since
              I told you to bring several of these to the battle. Then,
              repeat the same battle plan as above until you defeat it
              completely.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  9. Items  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Bomb: Here is the regular bomb, which is practically a tradition in each
      Zelda game. Use a bomb to defeat enemies, blow open walls and other
      things, and throw them by pressing the C button. You must have a Bomb
      Bag in order to carry them.

Bombchu: This remotely controlled bomb is back from the first N64 Zelda game.
         They work the same as the other game too; place them on the ground
         and press the C button to make them move straight ahead until they
         hit something and blow up. These are really cool to have, plus they
         are sold MUCH cheaper than before!

Bombers' Notebook: You receive this notebook after entering the Bombers'
                   hideout, then talking to the kid that appears when you
                   exit it. With this notebook, you can hold information
                   (pictures, names, promises you made to someone) for up to
                   20 people in the notebook.

Bottle: These are the empty bottles you can use in your inventory to carry
        potions, fairies, and some other things in for future use. There are
        6 bottles total that you can have in your inventory, and their
        locations are listed here:

    1. In the Southern Swamp, go to the Magic Hags' Potion Shop after finding
       Koume in the Woods of Mystery. Talk to Kotake to get a Bottle, filled
       with Red Potion.

    2. In the Snowhead area, go to the Goron Racetrack and win the race to
       get a Bottle with Gold Dust inside.

    3. After you save Romani Ranch from the aliens during the night of Day 1,
       you'll earn a Bottle filled with Milk.

    4. On the Final Night, enter the Milk Bar, Latte with the Romani Mask on.
       Talk to Madame Aroma and give her the Special Letter to Mama (if you
       don't have it, complete the whole trading process like you did for the
       Keaton Mask to get it). She'll give you a Bottle full of Chateau
       Romani as thanks.

    5. In the eastern section of Zora Cape, you'll see a large waterfall and
       several ledges leading up to the top of it. Hookshot onto a ledge by
       latching onto the palm tree, then continue using it to reach the top.
       Enter the cave there and jump in as Zora Link. Talk to the beaver and
       win both races against both brothers to win an empty Bottle.

    6. On the Final Night in Ikana Graveyard, wear the Captain's Hat and have
       the Stalchildren open the grave they're guarding. Direct Dampe through
       this room to find 3 beams of light. After you beat the Big Poe, open
       the chest to get the Bottle.

Deku Nut: This small nut isn't exactly the most useful of items in the game.
          When you throw it, it'll cause a blinding light for a second,
          causing enemies to stop chasing you for a moment.

Deku Stick: Here's another item from the first N64 Zelda game, too. You can
            swing this around at enemies, but it isn't very durable and will
            break easily. You can hold one and use a torch on the wall to
            light it, which you can use to light other objects.

Fire Arrow: When you select this magical arrow, you'll be able to shoot
            flaming arrows. You can use this ability to light unlit torches,
            melt ice, defeat enemies, and some other things as well. It uses
            2MP each time you shoot a Fire Arrow. You find this special arrow
            in the Snowhead Temple.

Gilded Sword: This is a much more powerful sword than your previous sword. It
              does 3x more damage than the Kokiri Sword, plus it's larger,
              giving it a bit more range of attacking. You get it by giving
              the smithy in Mountain Village a Bottle of Gold Dust, after you
              had them forge the Razor Sword for you.

Great Fairy's Sword: This special sword is the most powerful of all the
                     swords. You get it from the Great Fairy in Ikana Canyon
                     after finding all the Stray Fairies in the Stone Tower
                     Temple. This sword is 4x as powerful as the Kokiri
                     Sword, and you equip it to a C button to use it.

Hero's Bow: This legendary bow is back yet again in this game for you to use.
            You can use arrows with this weapon to shoot at objects or
            enemies. There are 3 special types of arrows you can use as well:
            the Fire Arrow, the Ice Arrow, and the Light Arrow. However, each
            of those arrows consumes magic power each time one is used.

Hero's Shield: This is the very first shield you get in the game. It protects
               you from the basic stuff, but not from more powerful attacks,
               such as lasers.
 
Hookshot: This really useful accessory is back again in this game as well.
          Use it like you did in the previous Zelda game by aiming with the
          red dot, then pressing the C button to shoot the Hookshot towards
          the object, then you can pull yourself to it if it attaches. You
          can't attach yourself to any object, though.

Ice Arrow: This icy type of arrow is another great and useful weapon for you
           to use. You find this special arrow in the Great Bay Temple, and
           you can use it to create ice platforms in the water, freeze many
           enemies, and turn them into small glaciers. Each Ice Arrow takes
           2MP to shoot, though.

Kokiri Sword: This is the sword that Link starts out with in the beginning of
              the game. It's pretty good for now, but you can get better
              swords later in the game.

Lens of Truth: This mysterious magnifying lens is a rather strange object.
               When you use it, it wastes magic power, but you're able to see
               things you wouldn't normally see with this item, including
               hidden platforms, objects, and even people.

Light Arrow: This is the third magical arrow you collect through the course
             of this game. It has a great use, especially in the Stone Tower
             Temple, since you can use them to dispose of those blue sun
             blocks and sun switches on walls. Each of these arrows takes 4MP
             to shoot, which isn't too much, so don't worry.

Magic Bean: There are special beans that are sold by a man living underground
            within the Deku Palace. Buy one for 10 rupees, and you can plant
            it in any soft soil patch. To make it grow, wait until it rains
            on the 2nd Day, or pour a Bottle of Spring Water on it. You can
            then ride the platform that sprouts to a new area to find
            something useful.

Mirror Shield: This shiny shield is pretty much like the Hero's Shield,
               except for the fact that it can reflect light. It's very
               useful in the last temple of the game, where you need to shine
               light on many things. You get this shield after you get
               through the well in Ikana Canyon.

Pictograph Box: This camera can be used to take photos of anything. It can
                only store one picture at once, but you can always choose to
                delete the saved picture and take a new one.

Powder Keg: This is a giant type of a bomb that only Gorons can use. This has
            a large range and has lots of power. However, you must pass the
            test by the Goron in Goron Village (clear the boulder in front of
            the Goron Racetrack with a Powder Keg) in order to use them.
            Also, you can only carry one at a time.

Razor Sword: This sword is forged by the smithy in the Mountain Village for
             100 rupees. It's stronger than the Kokiki Sword, but it has one
             disadvantage. You can only use it 100 times before it loses its
             edge and becomes the Kokiki Sword again. The only reason you
             should get this is because you must have it in order to get the
             Gilded Sword afterward.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  10. Heart Pieces  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Clock Town
----------

1. After you get the Land Title Deed for that golden Deku Flower, launch
   yourself from it and float onto a ledge above the entrance to the Clock
   Tower to find the Heart Piece.

2. In Clock Town, you may have noticed the man that runs around town and
   stops at each mailbox. That is the postman of the town. Follow him around
   until he returns to the post office again at 3PM in the game. Go in the
   post office and talk to him in the back to play a game where you'll have
   to count 10 seconds and press A the precise moment that 10 seconds have
   passed. If you nail it on the dot, you'll gain the Heart Piece. Note that
   this is rather difficult to win, so I advise you use a watch to win
   easier.

3. When you're regular Link, go to the east half of North Clock Town. Walk up
   the middle of the slide to the platform at the top. There, turn left and
   jump across to the high ledge. From there, jump into the tree and claim
   the Heart Piece.

4. Enter the Swordsman Training place (it's next to the Post Office) and
   complete the Expert Course using only jump attacks to destroy the logs.

5. Turn into Deku Link and use the Deku Flower near the fairy cave to fly
   over the nearby fence (do this on 1st Day). Drop in the hole and play the
   Deku Nut Playground game, and win 3 days in a row to get the Heart Piece.

6. In North Clock Town, there is a circle of bushes that will start moving if
   you try picking up or cutting any of them. Wear the Keaton Mask while
   doing so and you will summon Keaton. Answer its 5 questions (all questions
   and answers are in the Secrets section) and you'll gain the Heart Piece.
   (This can also be done at the circle of bushes at Milk Road and the
   Mountain Village.)

7. After you get the Land Title Deed from the gold Deku Scrub, enter the
   Stock Pot Inn after 12AM (become Deku Link and use the Deku Flower to fly
   to the roof and enter the door there). Go downstairs to the toilet to find
   a hand coming out of it. Talk to it, then give it the Land Title Deed to
   get the Heart Piece.

8. During any of the three nights, you'll find two dancers dancing in the
   north section of West Clock Town. Wear Kamaro's Mask and go up to them,
   then press B to teach them the new dance. You will then be rewarded with a
   Heart Piece.

9. After you get the Postman's Hat, wear it and check any of the postboxes
   throughout Clock Town to find a Heart Piece.

10. Enter Honey and Darling's Shop on each of the three days and play their
    different games. You must get a perfect score on each of the days to earn
    the Heart Piece. You won't get it if you win on Day 1, then lose a couple
    times before getting another perfect.

11. After you get the Hero's Bow, return to the Town Shooting Gallery in the
    south end of East Clock Town. Gain a perfect score (hit all 50 targets)
    to win the Heart Piece. You only get it if you've already won the quiver
    upgrade by beating the high score here.

12. After you gain the Goron Mask, go to East Clock Town and enter the
    Treasure Chest Shop. Play for 30 rupees and make it through the maze to
    the chest, then open it to get the Heart Piece.

13. After you get the All-Night Mask, enter the Stock Pot Inn and enter the
    first room on the bottom floor. Talk to Anju's grandmother while wearing
    the mask and choose to listen to the story that takes just 2 hours. After
    the story's done, pick "On the eve of the festival" as your answer to get
    a Heart Piece.

14. When you get the All-Night Mask, go to the Stock Pot Inn and talk to
    Anju's grandmother in the room. Listen to the second story (the one that
    lasts until morning) and pick "I dunno" as your answer to get another
    Heart Piece.

15. In West Clock Town, you'll get a Heart Piece after you have 5000 rupees
    deposited to the bank.

16. After you get the Couple's Mask, go to the Mayor's Residence and wear the
    mask in the meeting with the mayor. You'll make the mayor happy, and
    he'll reward you with a Heart Piece.


Termina Field
-------------

17. In the north section of Termina Field, you'll find those giant mushroom-
    shaped pillars. Walk underneath the mushroom that you found the man
    standing on top of earlier in the game and fall in the hole underneath 
it.
    There, defeat the two Dodongos and open the chest that appears to get the
    Heart Piece.

18. In South Clock Town, talk to the Deku that owns the gold Deku Flower.
    After that, go to the observatory via the underground cave in East Clock
    Town. Look through the telescope and watch that Deku fly to a hidden area
    near the observatory. Exit the place and get back to Clock Town, then
    take the east exit to Termina Field. Go east and onto the higher ledge,
    then fall into the hole in front of the gates surrounding the
    observatory. Go up and talk to the Deku and he'll try to sell you a Heart
    Piece for 150 rupees. Turn down that offer and he'll reduce the price to
    100, so buy your Heart Piece then.

19. In the southern area of Termina Field, walk around in the tall grass near
    the entrance to Milk Road. Look for a couple butterflies floating around
    and walk around that area to drop into a hidden cave. There, defeat the
    Pea Hat and open the chest that appears to get the Heart Piece.

20. In the western area of Termina Field, you'll notice a giant boulder to
    the right of the fence blocking access to the Great Bay area. Bomb the
    boulder and drop into the hole to enter a cave. Defeat the Bio Deku
    Babas, then shoot down the beehives on the ceiling. Become Zora Link and
    collect the Heart Piece at the bottom of this pool.

21. Throughout Termina Field, there are many Hidden Holes that you can fall
    into. There are 4 specific holes that you must fall into, then change the
    color of the Gossip Stone within by playing the Goron Lullaby. The 4
    holes are as follows: just outside the entrance to North Clock Town, the
    hole right next to the fence by Astral Observatory, the one against the
    wall between the entrances to the Woodfall area and Milk Road, and the
    one under a boulder north of the West Clock Town entrance. After you make
    them all the same color, you'll get the Heart Piece.


Romani Ranch
------------

22. At Romani Ranch, go to the Doggie Racetrack. Choose to play, then go into
    the pen of dogs and use the Mask of Truth to see how they're feeling.
    Find one that feels it's going to win, then choose to race it, although
    it's not guaranteed to win. After you win over 150 rupees in prizes,
    you'll get a Heart Piece.


Southern Swamp and Vicinity
---------------------------

23. After you get the Land Title Deed from the Deku Scrub in Clock Town, go
    down to the swamp. Talk to the Deku Scrub to the left of the Swamp
    Tourist Center, then give it the deed to gain the Swamp Title Deed for
    its Deku Flower. Turn into Deku Link and use that Deku Flower to get to
    the roof of the building, then grab the Heart Piece at the top.

24. After you revive Koume in the Woods of Mystery, go to the Swamp Tourist
    Center and talk to her to get a free cruise ride, as well as the
    Pictograph Box. Get off when you reach the Deku Palace, then turn into
    Deku Link. Follow the monkey into the Deku Palace. Go up across the
    bridge to the guards, then talk to them to make them move. Continue
    straight up to the Royal Chamber, then go up and use the Pictograph Box
    to take a picture of the king. Now, leave the palace and turn back into
    regular Link. Board the boat and ride it back to the end, then show the
    Pictograph Box to the man at the counter to get a Piece of Heart.

25. After you beat the Woodfall Temple and obtain the Hero's Bow, come back
    to the tourist center and talk to Koume. Accept the offer to play her
    special shoot-the-target game while on the boat cruise. Shoot more than
    20 of the targets before you reach the end and you'll win a Heart Piece.

26. On the road to the Southern Swamp, head to the Swamp Shooting Gallery.
    Shoot a perfect score, which is 2120 points (only after winning the
    quiver upgrade) and you'll win the Heart Piece.

27. When you reach the area where the path splits on the road to the Southern
    Swamp, you'll see a large tree with Bad Bats flying around it. Kill all
    the bats, then climb up the vines on the side of the tree, then grab the
    Heart Piece at the top.

28. After you get past the guards at the entrance to the Deku Palace, go up
    the hallway and enter the room to the left. Get through the following 2
    areas while avoiding the guards, then grab the Heart Piece at the end.

29. Go around through the Woodfall area as Deku Link until you reach the
    large gold chest on the ledge with a Deku Scrub. Open it to get the Heart
    Piece.


Snowhead and Vicinity
---------------------

30. After you beat the Snowhead Temple and you have the Don Gero's Mask, go
    to the Mountain Village and talk to the frog sitting next to the water
    (while wearing the mask). There are 5 frogs total throughout the world of
    Termina that are part of this choir, and you must find them all (their
    locations are in the Secrets section). After you do that, go to the
    Mountain Village and conduct the choir with the Don Gero's Mask to win a
    Heart Piece.

31. After you get the Swamp Title Deed, become Deku Link and talk to the Deku
    salesman in Goron Village. When you get the chance to, assign the paper
    to a C button and give it to the Deku. After it leaves, use the gold Deku
    Flower to fly up to a high ledge. There, go up and grab the Heart Piece.

32. Go to the Twin Islands area after you beat the Snowhead Temple and when
    you have the Zora Mask. Dive under the water and open the underwater
    chest to get the Heart Piece inside.

33. On the road going up to Snowhead, go up the path up until you reach the
    second set of ramps to jump. At that point, look to the right and use the
    Lens of Truth to reveal several hidden platforms. Become regular Link and
    jump across them, then on the last one, play the Scarecrow's Song (if you
    played the Song of Time after learning it, you'll have to go learn it
    again) to make the scarecrow appear on the far ledge. Hookshot up to it
    and collect the Heart Piece there.


Great Bay and Vicinity
----------------------

34. In the Great Bay Coast, gather 6 Fish in 6 Bottles. Then, bring them to
    the Marine Research Lab and empty them into the small tank (not the one
    that the Zora Eggs went in). The fish inside will become larger and eat
    all your fish and the other fish in the tank, then spit out a Heart
    Piece.

35. When you're going through the watery sewer area underneath the Gerudo
    Fortress, you'll find a room with a jail cell. There is a Heart Piece
    inside of that locked cell. Go up the steps in front of the cell, then go
    left and become Goron Link to destroy the barrels. Step on the switch to
    open the cell, then quickly go back down the steps and into the cell to
    claim the prize.

36. When you're defeating those Deep Pythons under Pinnacle Rock, you'll
    eventually free another seahorse. The first seahorse you got from the
    fisherman will come and thank you by giving you a Heart Piece.

37. On the east side of Zora Cape, follow the path east and you'll find a
    large waterfall. Dive under the waterfall and defeat the Like Like to get
    the Heart Piece.

38. Also on the eastern part of Zora Cape, you'll notice a bunch of high
    ledges leading up to the top of the waterfall. Hookshot your way onto
    those ledges and continue using the Hookshot to reach the top. There,
    enter a cave to reach Waterfall Rapids. Jump in the water and talk to the
    beaver to race. Win both races after you won the Bottle already to get a
    Heart Piece.

39. (This must be done before you beat the Great Bay Temple.) Enter Zora Hall
    and get to the middle area. There, enter the rightmost door as Zora Link.
    In that room, become regular Link and Hookshot onto the tree on the high
    ledge, then pull yourself there. Become Zora Link and read the book to
    hear a few notes and stuff. After that, leave this room and enter the
    next room to the left. Here, go up to the Zora and pull out your guitar
    to have a jam session. Play the notes you read in the previous room to
    continue. Remember all these notes you're playing since you'll need to
    repeat them soon. After that, leave the room and go to the next one.
    Here, go up the steps to where the next band member is playing the
    keyboard. Go behind him and become regular Link, then play all those
    notes. Evan will become happy and give you the Heart Piece.

40. In Zora Hall, enter Lulu's room (must be Zora Link if doing this before
    beating Great Bay Temple) and become Goron Link. Talk to the Akindo Nut
    and give him the Mountain Title Deed if you have it to get its Ocean
    deed. Now, become Deku Link and use the Deku Flower to get to the higher
    ledge with the Heart Piece.

41. In the northern section of the Great Bay area, get onto the piece of land
    to the east (it's the one with all the high ledges with Hookshot targets
    on them). Hookshot onto the higher ledges to find a soft soil spot. Plant
    a Magic Bean, then water it with Spring Water, or just play the Song of
    Storms. After it grows, ride the platform onto the higher ledge. Play the
    Scarecrow's Song to make a scarecrow appear on the last ledge. Hookshot
    onto it and grab the Heart Piece on the ledge.

42. After you get the Captain's Hat, get to the Great Bay Coast and enter the
    Oceanside Spider House. Talk to the 6 Stalchildren found in this place
    and find out what order to shoot the colored masks in the final room in.
    Get to the last room (the one with the last group of Skulltulas in my
    list below) and shoot the 4 colored masks in the correct order with
    arrows to open a hidden passage. Go up the passage and collect the Heart
    Piece in the chest.

43. After you beat the Great Bay Temple and things go back to normal, swim to
    the halfway point in the middle of the Great Bay. You should find an
    abandoned Gerudo boat there, so ride it to a group of islands further
    north. Hookshot onto the tree and play the Fisherman's Jumping Game.
    Score more than 20 points before time's up to get the Heart Piece.


Ikana and Vicinity
------------------

44. In the Ikana Graveyard, wait until the 2nd Night and wear the Captain's
    Hat. Have the Stalchildren open the grave, then you drop into the cave
    below. Get through the whole cave with help from the Lens of Truth and a
    bomb (to destroy the cracked wall near the end). Defeat the Iron Knuckle
    at the end and open the chest that appears to get the Heart Piece.

45. After you get the Ocean Title Deed, give it to the Akindo Nut outside of
    Sakon's Hideout as Zora Link. It'll give you 200 rupees and its Deku
    Flower as a reward. Become Deku Link and use the flower to fly across the
    river to a ledge with the Heart Piece.

46. When you enter the Ancient Castle of Ikana, go into the west room. Get
    through it all to get outside on the castle roof. Now, hit the crystal
    switch on a pillar with an arrow to make the fire on another pillar
    disappear. Now, jump onto the pillar with the Deku Flower and quickly fly
    from pillar to pillar to reach the Heart Piece.

47. In the northwest section of Ikana Canyon, enter the Spirit House and pay
    30 rupees to play the game. Defeat the 4 Poe Sisters within 3 minutes to
    win the Heart Piece.

48. In Ikana Canyon, get down to the river to the south and swim west. At the
    end, enter the cave behind the waterfall called the Secret Shrine. Use a
    Light Arrow to open the first door, then defeat the 4 mini-bosses here to
    win a Heart Piece.


The Moon
--------

49. In the Deku Dungeon, you'll find the Heart Piece on the northeast ledge.
    Use the gold Deku Flower on the second spinning platform to reach it.

50. In the Goron Dungeon, instead of stopping where I said to in the guide
    above, continue navigating the path rolling around to the very end, then
    grab the Heart Piece on the ledge you come to.

51. Inside the Zora Dungeon, jump in the water and take the first right turn.
    Then, take the first left turn and continue along with the current
    pushing you. Keep taking all the left paths to the end, where you should
    find a Heart Piece.

52. After you get through all three battles, enter the following room and
    collect the Heart Piece in front of you.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  11. Masks -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

All-Night Mask
    Found: In North Clock Town, save the old lady from the burglar on the 1st
           night. On the Final night, enter the Curiosity Shop at 10PM when
           it opens and buy the All-Night Mask for 500 rupees (must have
           Giant Wallet first).
    Description: When you wear this mask, you won't be able to fall asleep.
                 This is particularly useful when listening to Anju's
                 grandmother's stories in the Stock Pot Inn.

Blast Mask
    Found: Get from old lady in North Clock Town at 12AM game time after
           chasing away the thief and rescuing her stolen bag.
    Description: When you wear this mask, you're practically wearing a bomb
                 on your face! Put it on and press B to explode the bomb,
                 causing a small amount of damage to yourself in the process.
                 It can harm enemies and blow open walls, just like a regular
                 bomb could.

Bremen Mask
    Found: Get from musician at the Laundry Pool in the southwest corner of
           Clock Town. This can only be done between 12AM and 6AM on the 1st
           and 2nd Days.
    Description: When you wear it, press B to start marching in place while
                 playing the Ocarina. Walk around and any animals nearby will
                 follow you around until you stop.

Bunny Hood
    Found: Get from Grog in Cucco Shack (Romani Ranch) after turning his 10
           chickens into roosters by marching around the field with the
           Bremen Mask.
    Description: When you wear this mask, you'll be able to run twice as fast
                 as you'd normally move. It's great if you want to get to a
                 certain point quicker within a certain amount of time.

Captain's Hat
    Found: Get it after defeating Skull Keeta in the Ikana Graveyard and
           opening the chest on the ledge.
    Description: When you wear this "mask", you can communicate with the
                 Stalchild creatures wandering around in the graveyard and in
                 a few other areas of the game.

Circus Leader's Mask
    Found: Get it from the Zora guy in the Milk Bar, Latte. You get it after
           performing the sound check as regular Link, Deku Link, Goron Link,
           and Zora Link.
    Description: If you wear this mask while delivering the milk to Clock
                 Town with Cremia, the Gorman Brothers won't attack the wagon
                 while you go through the detour.

Couple's Mask
    Found: Talk to Kafei and Anju in the Employees Only room in the Stock Pot
           Inn. Do this after you completed the entire Kafei and Anju trading
           sequence (it's listed in the Secrets section).
    Description: When this mask is worn, the people that you talk to will
                 become happy for some reason (particularly Mayor Dotour).

Deku Mask
    Found: After you defeat Skull Kid for the first time and be changed back
           To your normal form, you'll receive this mask.
    Description: Turns Links into a Deku Scrub, obviously. Press A to use a
                 Spin attack. When standing on a Deku Flower, press and hold
                 A to dive in. Wait a few moments before releasing A to be
                 launched high up in the air. You'll then be able to fly for
                 a limited period of time; press A again if you want to land
                 immediately. After you gain the ability to use magic in
                 Clock Town, press B to shoot bubbles. Hold B to make the
                 bubble larger, then release to shoot it ahead.

Don Gero's Mask
    Found: After you get the Goron Mask and learn the Goron Lullaby, go to
           Goron Village and enter the Goron Shrine. Here, go all the way up
           the path to the top, then go left into the Elder's room. Become
           regular Link, then take out a Deku Stick and light it using a
           torch. Put on the Bunny Hood and run out of this room. Light the 2
           unlit torches next to the group of Gorons, then run right down the
           path, lighting each torch along the way. At the very bottom, light
           3 more torches. After they're all lit, the giant chandelier above
           you will start spinning. So, go back up the path to all the Gorons
           and enter the room. Become Goron Link and roll at full speed out
           of the room, then jump the ramp and hit one of the spinning pots
           in the air. Go back up the hill and do this until a piece of meat
           falls from one when you destroy it. Then, go down and pick up the
           Rock Sirloin and carry it outside. Bring it all the way to the
           guard at Mountain Village to get the mask.
    Description: With this mask on, you'll be able to direct the frog choir
                 after you find all 5 frogs and it becomes spring in the
                 Snowhead area.

Fierce Deity's Mask
    Found: The child sitting under the tree gives you this mask. You must
           have collected all 20 regular masks throughout the game (excluding
           the 3 transformation masks) and have given them to each of the
           four children running around.
    Description: This special mask has great power, and you use it for the
                 final battle to make things much easier. 

Garo's Mask
    Found: After you get Epona, go to the Gorman Racetrack and beat the
           Gorman brothers in a race.
    Description: You need this mask in order to enter the Ikana region of the
                 game.

Giant's Mask
    Found: You find it in a chest within the Stone Tower Temple.
    Description: When you wear this mask for the Stone Tower Temple's boss
                 battle, you'll become giant-sized to take on the boss.
                 However, you're consuming magic power when you're large, so
                 make sure you have Green Potions to recover your magic when
                 needed.

Gibdo Mask
    Found: Get from the little girl's father in Ikana Canyon after you
           uncurse him with the Song of Healing.
    Description: When you wear this mask, the wandering Gibdos won't attack
                 you and they'll think you're one of them instead.

Goron Mask
    Found: After getting the Lens of Truth, follow the ghost of Darmani from
           Goron Village all the way through the Mountain Village. Go up the
           high cliff with help from the lens, then enter the graveyard at
           the top and heal the ghost's sorrows by playing the Song of
           Healing.
    Description: You obviously become a Goron when wearing this mask. You can
                 use Powder Kegs in your Goron form as well. To curl up into
                 a ball, press and hold A, then use the Control Stick to roll
                 around. If you roll around without crashing, your body will
                 gain spikes used to harm any enemies you hit. You consume
                 magic power when you roll around really fast with the
                 spikes. Press B to use a powerful punch to attack. While
                 curled up, press and hold B to jump and crash into the
                 ground, causing a quake to take place. Gorons cannot go in
                 water because they'll sink, so stay clear of water in this
                 form.

Great Fairy Mask
    Found: Get from the Great Fairy after you find the stray Fairy in Clock
           Town as regular Link, then return it to the fairy shrine.
    Description: When you enter the dungeons of the game, wear this mask and
                 the stray fairies won't be afraid to come near you. The hair
                 on the mask will shimmer when you're near one of those
                 fairies.

Kafei's Mask
    Found: Talk to Madame Aroma in the Mayor's Residence between 10AM and 8PM
           on the First Day and agree to help her find her son.
    Description: When you wear it, talk to people around Clock Town to find
                 out about where Kafei is hiding.

Kamaro's Mask
    Found: Between 12-6AM in Termina Field, go up to the snowy region and
           you'll find a guy dancing atop one of the mushroom-shaped pillars.
           Jump onto it and listen to his story, then play the Song of
           Healing to get the mask.
    Description: With this mask on, you can press B to perform the same dance
                 that the guy was doing.

Keaton Mask
    Found: Talk to Madame Aroma in the Mayor's Residence (East Clock Town)
           between 10AM and 8PM on the First Day and agree to help her find
           her son. Wait until it's about 2PM, and then go south and into the
           Stock Pot Inn. Talk to Anju while wearing the mask before and
           after the postman comes and goes to arrange a meeting with her at
           11:30PM in the inn kitchen. Come back at that time and go around
           to the kitchen, then talk to Anju and agree to mail her letter. In
           the next morning (Second Day), go to any postbox (triangular boxes
           all over Clock Town) and mail the letter. On the Second Day at
           3:30PM, go to the southwest corner of South Clock Town. Go up the
           ramp and follow the path to Laundry Pool. After the postman
           leaves, follow the kid into the Curiosity Shop back room. Go
           upstairs and talk to him to find out he's Kafei. Get the Pendant
           of Memories from him, then bring it to Anju in the Stock Pot Inn.
           After that, leave and wait until the afternoon of the Final Day,
           then head back to Laundry Pool. Go around the path and into the
           building and go talk to the Curiosity Shop owner to get the Keaton
           Mask.
    Description: When you cut down a bush in a circle of bushes and the
                 circle starts moving, wear the mask to summon Keaton. Answer
                 his questions (they're listed in the Secrets section)
                 properly and he'll give you a reward.

Mask of Scents
    Found: After you beat the Woodfall Temple and return the Deku Princess to
           the palace, enter the cave to the left side outside of the palace.
           Follow the butler through the extremely long and complicated maze,
           then talk to him again to get the mask.
    Description: With this mask on, you'll have an increased sense of smell.
                 You'd be able to smell out the magical mushroom that the
                 Magic Hags need to make their blue potions.

Mask of Truth
    Found: You get it from the guy in the Swamp Spider House after you defeat
           all 30 Skulltulas and break the curse.
    Description: When you wear this mask, you can talk to those weird stones
                 called Gossip Stones and learn some interesting information.
                 You can also talk to animals and see what they're thinking
                 as well.

Postman's Hat
    Found: After you get the Keaton Mask and the Special Delivery to Mama,
           find the postman running around Clock Town and give him the
           letter. Later that night when he delivers the letter to Madame
           Aroma inside the Milk Bar Latte (East Clock Town), talk to him
           again when he comes back outside and stops to get the Postman's
           Hat.
    Description: With this mask, you'll be able to look inside of the
                 postboxes throughout Clock Town.

Romani's Mask
    Found: Cremia gives this mask to you after you help her defend the milk
           delivery during the detour through the Gorman Racetrack.
    Description: You need to wear this mask in order to be granted access
                 into the Milk Bar, Latte in East Clock Town. It's your proof
                 of membership at that bar.

Stone Mask
    Found: The invisible soldier on the path leading to Ikana gives it to you
           after you give him a Red Potion.
    Description: Wearing this mask allows you to get by many enemies and
                 people without being seen at all! This will really help you
                 in the game, especially through the Gerudo Fortress!

Zora Mask
    Found: You get it from the dying Zora on the beach in the Great Bay Coast
           after playing the Song of Healing for him.
    Description: You turn into a Zora when you wear this special mask. As a
                 Zora, you can dive into the water as low as you want, and
                 you can even stand at the bottom of the water! You punch to
                 attack, and you can throw boomerangs to paralyze an enemy by
                 holding B and aiming. Also, you can put a shield in front of
                 you by pressing the R button.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  12. Songs -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Elegy of Emptiness
    Learned: From the King of Ikana after you defeat him in battle in the
             Ancient Castle of Ikana.
    Information: When you play this song, you'll create an empty shell of
                 your current form. The first shell will disappear and a new
                 one will appear if you play it again in the same form.
    How to play: C-Right, C-Left, C-Right, C-Down, C-Right, C-Up, C-Left

Epona's Song
    Learned: From Romani at the ranch after the target practice.
    Information: You can summon Epona to any point, as long as you're in
                 Termina Field.
    How to play: C-Up, C-Left, C-Right, C-Up, C-Left, C-Right

Goron Lullaby
    Learned: After you play the Lullaby Intro for the crying baby in the
             Goron Shrine, you'll learn this song. It'll replace the Lullaby
             Intro on the song list, too.
    Information: When played, this song puts all the Gorons around you to
                 sleep for a little while.
    How to play: A, C-Right, C-Left, A, C-Right, C-Left, C-Right, A

Inverted Song of Time
    Learned: N/A
    Information: Allows you to slow down the time in the game. You can also
                 return the time to normal speed if you already slowed it
                 down.
    How to play: C-Down, A, C-Right, C-Down, A, C-Right

Lullaby Intro
    Learned: After you thaw out the Elder Goron and talk to him as Goron
             Link.
    Information: Play this song for the crying baby in Goron Village to make
                 it go to sleep.
    How to play: A, C-Right, C-Left, A, C-Right, C-Left

New Wave Bossa Nova
    Learned: From the newly-hatched Zoras after you put all 7 eggs into the
             lab aquarium in the Great Bay Coast.
    Information: You play this song at a certain area to gain access to the
                 Great Bay Temple.
    How to play: C-Left, C-Up, C-Left, C-Right, C-Down, C-Left, C-Right

Oath to Order
    Learned: After you beat Odolwa in Woodfall Temple, it'll teach you that
             song.
    Information: There isn't any use for this song early in the game, but
                 you'll use it in the later parts of the game to summon all
                 the bosses of the temples.
    How to play: C-Right, C-Down, A, C-Down, C-Right, C-Up

Scarecrow's Song
    Learned: Play a variety of notes on the Ocarina in front of a scarecrow.
             (The notes listed below are the ones I played.)
    Information: If played in certain areas, a scarecrow appears that you can
                 Hookshot onto.
    How to play: C-Up, C-Left, C-Right, C-Down, C-Up, C-Left, C-Right, C-Down

Sonata of Awakening
    Learned: Learn it from the imprisoned monkey when you try to rescue it in
             Deku Palace.
    Information: When played, this song should wake up anything that's in a
                 deep sleep.
    How to play: C-Up, C-Left, C-Up, C-Left, A, C-Right, A

Song of Healing
    Learned: Learn it by visiting the mask salesman after beating Skull Kid
             and warping back to the First Day.
    Information: Heals Link of any impurities (the whole Deku Link incident)
    How to play: C-Left, C-Right, C-Down, C-Left, C-Right, C-Down

Song of Double Time
    Learned: N/A
    Information: Allows you to warp to the following dawn/night of the game.
    How to play: C-Right, C-Right, A, A, C-Down, C-Down

Song of Soaring
    Learned: Check out the stone that the owl was standing on in the Southern
             Swamp.
    Information: It'll fly you to an owl statue when you play it. If inside a
                 dungeon, you will warp to the entrance.
    How to play: C-Down, C-Left, C-Up, C-Down, C-Left, C-Up

Song of Storms
    Learned: From the composer Flat in the cave under the tombstone opened on
             the 1st Night.
    Information: When played, this song causes a rainstorm to occur, which
                 waters everything around it. It also cures you of being
                 jinxed if you ever get hit by a Blue Bubble.
    How to play: A, C-Down, C-Up, A, C-Down, C-Up

Song of Time
    Learned: After you obtain the Ocarina in the battle against Skull Kid
    Information: Allows you to warp back to the First Day.
    How to play: C-Right, A, C-Down, C-Right, A, C-Down

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  13. Shops -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Tingle the Mapmaker (North Clock Town)
--------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Clock Town      5
Woodfall        40


Bomb Shop (West Clock Town)
---------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Bombs (x10)     30
Bombchu (x10)   40
Bomb Bag        50
Bigger Bomb Bag 90 (if you prevented the robbery in North Clock Town)
Powder Keg      50 (talk to the Goron as Goron Link)


Trading Post (West Clock Town)
------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Red Potion      30
Green Potion    30
Hero's Shield   80
Fairy           50
Deku Stick      10
Arrows (x30)    30
Deku Nuts (x10) 30
Arrows (x50)    40


Milk Bar, Latte (East Clock Town)
---------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Regular Milk    20
Chateau         200


Tingle the Mapmaker (Milk Road)
-------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Romani Ranch    20
Great Bay       40


Gorman Brother (Gorman Track)
-----------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Milk            50 (must have bottle)


Tingle the Mapmaker (Path to Southern Swamp)
--------------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Woodfall        20
Snowhead        40


Akindo Nut (Southern Swamp)
---------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Magic Bean      10 (can only buy them as Deku Link)


Magic Hags' Potion Shop (Southern Swamp)
----------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Blue Potion     60 (after you bring the Magic Mushrooms)
Green Potion    10
Red Potion      20


Tingle the Mapmaker (Mountain Village)
--------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Snowhead        20
Romani Ranch    40


Goron Shop (Goron Village before Snowhead Temple)
-------------------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Bombs (x10)     40
Arrows (x10)    40
Red Potion      80


Goron Shop (Goron Village after Snowhead Temple)
------------------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Bombs (x10)     10
Arrows (x10)    20
Red Potion      50


Akindo Nut (Goron Village)
--------------------------

Item              Rupees
----              ------
Biggest Bomb Bag  200 (can only buy this as Goron Link)


Tingle the Mapmaker (Great Bay Coast)
-------------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Great Bay       20
Stone Tower     40


Zora Shop (Zora Hall)
---------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Hero's Shield   90
Arrows (x10)    20
Red Potion      60


Akindo Nut (Zora Hall)
----------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Green Potion    40 (can only buy this as Zora Link)


Tingle the Mapmaker (Ikana Canyon)
----------------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Stone Tower     20
Clock Town      40


Akindo Nut (Ikana Canyon)
-------------------------

Item            Rupees
----            ------
Blue Potion     100 (can only buy this as regular Link)

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  14. Spider Houses -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Swamp Spider House
------------------

Requirements: Deku Mask, Goron Mask, 2-3 Empty Bottles, 2-3 Magic Beans,
              Hero's Bow
Found: On an island north of the Deku Palace. Swim there after beating the
       Woodfall Temple, then use a Deku Stick and the torch to burn down the
       cobweb blocking the doorway.

1. In the first room, you'll find one crawling around in the water.

2. You'll find one on back of a pillar on the right side of the first room.

3. Destroy the clay pots in the left side of the first room to find one.

4. On the right wall in this room, release a Bottle of bugs and they'll crawl
   into the hole in the wall, revealing another Skulltula.

5. On the left wall of the same room, release the Bottle of bugs below the
   hole in the wall to make a Skulltula come out.

6. In the west room on the first floor, bomb the crates in the right side of
   the room to reveal a Skulltula.

7. In the same room as #6, bomb the crates in the left side of the room.

8. Bomb the boulder in the corner of the room, then plant a Magic Bean and
   pour a Bottle of Spring Water on it. Then, use the Hero's Bow and shoot
   down the Skulltula high on the wall, and ride the bean platform to collect
   the token.

9. In the same room, climb up the ladder to the higher floor, then shoot the
   Skulltula atop the gray statue in middle of the room. Jump onto the statue
   to claim the token.

10. On the higher floor in this room, you'll find one hiding behind one of
    the torches.

11. In the middle room on the second floor, you'll find a Skulltula crawling
    behind another pillar.

12. In the same room as #11, shoot the Skulltula on the north wall with an
    arrow. Then, use the nearby Deku Flowers as Deku Link to reach the token.

13. On the right side of the middle room on the second floor, empty a Bottle
    of bugs in front of the hole in the wall to reveal a Skulltula.

14. In the east room on the second floor, shoot down the beehives on the
    ceiling until a Skulltula falls out. Then, drop down to the lower floor
    and defeat it.

15. Same as #14.

16. On the bottom floor of the east room, destroy the pots to reveal another
    Skulltula.

17. Go to the sleeping Deku and play the Sonata of Awakening, then it'll
    disappear into a hidden room in the wall. Cut through those vines with
    your sword and defeat the Skulltula in that hidden room.

18. Use the golden Deku Flower as Deku Link and launch to the higher ledge.
    Wait for the Skulltula on the wall to crawl down to where you can reach
    it, then kill it and take the token.

19. Get onto the high ledge as Deku Link, then drop onto the giant vases
    below as Goron Link. Stand on the second vase and slam down onto it (curl
    up, then press and hold B) to knock out a Skulltula.

20. Same as #19, but do that on the fourth vase in the row.

21. In the north room on the second floor, activate the crystal switch on the
    ledge to make a ladder appear in this room. Then, drop down to the lower
    area and defeat the Skulltula on the wall, then climb up the ladder and
    collect the token.

22. In the same room, shoot down the beehives on the ceiling and defeat the
    Skulltula that falls from one of them.

23. On the bottom floor of this room, you'll find a Skulltula crawling up and
    down a pillar. Wait until it's at the bottom, then kill it.

24. On the north wall, shoot the Skulltula with an arrow. Then, climb the
    ladder to the left ledge and plant a Magic Bean in the soft soil. Water
    it with a Bottle of Spring Water, then ride the platform that grows up to
    that token.

25. In the same room as above, ride the bean platform over to the middle
    ledge, then go north into the next room. There, shoot down the beehives
    on the ceiling and defeat the Skulltula that comes down from one of them.

26. In this room, become Goron Link and punch the tree to knock out 3
    Skulltulas. Kill them and collect a few more tokens.

27. Same as #26.

28. Same as #26.

29. You'll find a Skulltula creeping around in the tall grass in this room.

30. Same as #29.


Oceanside Spider House
----------------------

Requirements: Goron Mask, Hookshot
Found: Next to the Fisherman's Hut on the beach in the Great Bay Coast area.

1. At the top of the entrance ramp, use the Hookshot to destroy the Skulltula
   on the right wall and take its token.

2. At the bottom of the ramp, look up and hit the Skulltula on the other side
   with the Hookshot and claim its token.

3. After you Hookshot over the fence, look up towards the left corner of the
   ceiling to find a Skulltula hiding behind a cobweb. Burn it with a Fire
   Arrow, then use the Hookshot to kill it.

4. In the second room, you'll find the Skulltula on the wall above the
   stairs.

5. As regular Link, roll into the first case on the right side of the room
   and a Skulltula will pop out.

6. In the corner, you'll see a vase behind a cobweb. Burn it with a Fire
   Arrow, then roll into it as regular Link to make the Skulltula come out.

7. Look up towards the ceiling and you should see a Skulltula crawling on top
   of a beam. Hit its side with the Hookshot and claim the token the same
   way.

8. Burn down the cobweb in front of the west door and enter that room. Get to
   the upper-right corner of this room and hit the picture on the wall with
   the Hookshot to reveal the Skulltula.

9. To your right, pull the middle bookcase away from the wall, then look into
   the hole to find the Skulltula.

10. Climb onto the top of the bookcase with the Stalchild sitting on it, then
    look at the space between the ceiling and the top of the wall. You'll see
    a Skulltula crawling back and forth there. Keep shooting your Hookshot at
    it until you hit it, then get the token the same way.

11. Jump across the tops of bookcases and get to the lower-left part of this
    room. You'll find a Skulltula on top of an L-shaped bookcase in plain
    view.

12. Jump across bookcases so you'll directly across from the picture on the
    left wall. Hit it with your Hookshot, then use the Hookshot to defeat the
    Skulltula inside.

13. Drop to the ground and push the bookcase against the north wall to the
    right to reveal a hidden room. Go in that room and defeat 2 more
    Skulltulas.

14. See #13.

15. Get back to the previous room and go about halfway down the stairs. Look
    straight at the ledge between the wall and ceiling to see a Skulltula
    crawling there. Hit it with your Hookshot to defeat it, then do that
    again to get the token.

16. Next to the door down here is a torch, then a vase next to that. Roll
    into the vase to make a Skulltula come out.

17. Continue up to the wall, where you'll see a hole covered up by cobwebs.
    Burn them down and use the Hookshot to take out the Skulltula inside.

18. Look to the left and you'll see another Skulltula crawling up and down a
    wall, hiding behind a mask hanging on the wall. Hit it with the Hookshot
    when it's in view.

19. Go left into the next room after burning down the cobwebs in the way. In
    that room, look to the right to find a bunch of boxes. Roll into the
    regular crate to find a Skulltula.

20. Get to the back of this room and you'll find one in plain view on the
    wall.

21. Look up at the ceiling and shoot the cobwebs with a Fire Arrow to get a
    clear view of the Skulltula hiding there. Hit it with the Hookshot to
    defeat it.

22. In the west side of this room, roll into the regular crate to reveal a
    hole in the wall. Go through the hole and defeat the Skulltula above you.

23. Stand on top of the boxes in the lower-left corner of the room, then look
    up and to the east to find a Hookshot target. Shoot it to reach a higher
    ledge and destroy the clay jars to find a Skulltula.

24. Go back to the room with the stairs and jump up onto the crates in the
    corner straight ahead. Destroy the clay pot at the top and defeat the
    Skulltula you find inside it.

25. Go through the door across from the stairs to enter another room. There,
    go up to the table of Stalchildren, then turn around and look up above
    the door to see a Skulltula crawling on the high ledge. Hit it with the
    Hookshot as best as you can until you defeat it.

26. Get to the upper-left corner of the room and roll into the large vase to
    knock out a Skulltula.

27. On the left wall, hit the second picture with the Hookshot to reveal a
    Skulltula.

28. Stand on the table in the middle of the room and become Goron Link. Pound
    the ground (curl and press/hold B) to knock the last 3 Skulltulas out of
    the chandelier.

29. See #28.

30. See #28.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  15. Keaton's Questions  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

When you cut down a bush within a circle of bushes, they sometimes start 
moving around and then disappear. If that happens, put on the Keaton Mask to 
summon Keaton. Talk to Keaton and he will ask you some questions. Answer them 
correctly to get a Heart Piece. Here, I've listed the questions along with 
their proper answers for your convenience below (if I missed any, let me 
know):

1. What is the name of the mayor of Clock Town?
    Answer: Dotour

2. How old is Tingle, the map salesman?
    Answer: 35

3. Who is the leader of the Bombers gang?
    Answer: Jim

4. What is the name of Clock Town's inn?
    Answer: Stock Pot Inn

5. What is the name of the vintage milk sold at the Milk Bar?
    Answer: Chateau Romani

6. What is the name of the song that Romani, the girl at the ranch, teaches
   you?
    Answer: Epona's Song

7. What time does Romani, the girl at the ranch, go to bed?
    Answer: Eight

8. What is the name of the festival that is to be held in Clock Town?
    Answer: Carnival of Time

9. What is the name given to you by Romani, the girl at the ranch?
    Answer: Grasshopper

10. Once it's completed, how tall will the festival tower at the carnival be?
     Answer: Four stories

11. What instrument does the Skull Kid play?
     Answer: Flute

12. How many tiny cow figurines are there in Clock Town?
     Answer: Ten

13. What bad habit does Anju, the innkeeper, have?
     Answer: She's quick to apologize

14. What color of trunks does Tingle the mapmaker wear?
     Answer: Red

15. What are the magic words that Tingle created? Tingle, Tingle...what?
     Answer: Kooloo-Limpah!

16. How many balloons does Romani, the girl at the ranch, use during
    practice?
     Answer: One

17. What is the name of the singer in the Zora band, The Indigo-Go's?
     Answer: Lulu

18. At what time does Romani, the ranch girl, wake up?
     Answer: Six

19. How many mailboxes are there in Clock Town?
     Answer: Five

20. What weapon does Romani, the girl at the ranch, use in practice?
     Answer: Bow

21. Where does Cremia, manager of Romani Ranch, try to deliver her milk?
     Answer: Milk Bar

22. What does the owner of the Bomb Shop call his mother?
     Answer: Mommy

23. Mikau is of which race?
     Answer: Zora

24. Darmani is of which race?
     Answer: Goron

25. How many cows are there at Romani Ranch?
     Answer: Three

26. How many members are there in the Zora band, The Indigo-Go's?
     Answer: Five

27. Is Tingle the mapmaker left-handed or right-handed?
     Answer: Right-handed

28. How many cuccos are there in the barn at Romani Ranch?
     Answer: One

29. What is Anju, the innkeeper, bad at doing?
     Answer: Cooking

30. What is the name of Anju's father?
     Answer: Tortus

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  16. Secrets/Tips and Tricks -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Anju and Kafei Trading Sequence
-------------------------------

You may have noticed that in order to obtain some masks, I may have mentioned 
a trading sequence you must do in order to reunite Anju and Kafei. You go 
through this sequence to get the Keaton Mask, and several other masks/items 
as well. Here's a quick rundown of the full trading sequence for future 
reference:

    1. On Day 1 (between 10AM-8PM), go to the Mayor's Residence in East Clock
       Town. Talk to Madame Aroma and get Kafei's Mask.

    2. Between 1:50-4:10PM, go to the Stock Pot Inn and talk to Anju. Tell
       her you have a reservation and she'll give you a Room Key.

    3. After the postman comes to and leaves Stock Pot Inn, put on Kafei's
       Mask and talk to Anju. She'll tell you to come back at 11:30PM.

    4. At around 11PM outside of the inn, become Deku Link and use the nearby
       Deku Flower to get onto the inn's roof. Go through the open door there
       and meet Anju as regular Link in the kitchen downstairs. Talk to her
       and choose to mail her letter in the morning.

    5. That night (or the next morning), go to a postbox in Clock Town and
       mail the letter.
    6. On Day 2 after mailing the letter, head to the Laundry Pool (get there
       from South Clock Town) at around 3PM. After the postman gives the
       masked child the letter, follow the child into the building.

    7. Go upstairs and talk to the child to find out he's Kafei. He'll tell
       you what happened and give you a Pendant of Memories for Anju.

    8. Go to the Stock Pot Inn and give Anju the pendant, then leave the inn
       and wait for the Final day.

    9. At around 3PM on the Final day, go to the Laundry Pool and enter that
       building. Talk to the Curiosity Shop owner in the room and he'll give
       you the Keaton Mask and a Special Letter to Mama.

   10. Go to Sakon's Hideout in the Ikana Canyon and talk to Kafei there.

   11. Between 4-6AM on the Final night, get into the Stock Pot Inn and enter
       that Employees Only room on the second floor, then talk to Kafei and
       Anju to get the Couples Mask.


Bomb Bag Upgrades
-----------------

Big Bomb Bag (holds 30 bombs): On the first night at around 12AM, head to 
north Clock Town to find an old lady walking up the path. Wait until 12:30 
and a strange man will appear and steal her bag. Chase the man down and use 
the sword to make him drop the package and run away. The next day, go to the 
Bomb Shop and buy this new Bomb Bag for 90 rupees (provided you already 
bought the first Bomb Bag).

Biggest Bomb Bag (holds 40 bombs): In Goron Village after you get the Goron 
Mask, talk to the Deku salesman and buy this bag for 200 rupees. You can only 
get it after you've obtained the first Bomb Bag upgrade.


Change Seasons in the Snowhead Area
-----------------------------------

Each time you play the Song of Time and revisit the villages in the Snowhead 
area, you'll find that they're icy and cold again. To make it spring again, 
go all the way up and into the Snowhead Temple. Go up and into the light in 
the first room to be warped to the boss room. Defeat the boss (Goht) again 
and the season will become spring.


Frogs for Don Gero's Choir
--------------------------

In the Mountain Village during the spring, there is a frog choir that 
performs there. However, only one frog is there in the spring and you have to 
find the others. After you get the Don Gero's Mask, go to each of these 
locations and talk to the frogs there to get them to go to the Mountain 
Village:

    1. At the Laundry Pool in Clock Town

    2. After defeating the Gekko mini-boss in the Woodfall Temple

    3. After defeating the Gekko mini-boss in the Great Bay Temple

    4. On a log in the southeast section of the Southern Swamp


Magic Bean Soft Soil Locations
------------------------------

Throughout the game, you will find many small square patches of dirt, in 
which you can plant a Magic Bean. Water the bean you planted and it'll grow 
into a large platform you can ride to a new place. Here's a list of those 
Soft Soil spots that I've found so far:

    1. There's a bean hole in the same cave where you buy the Magic Beans
       inside the Deku Palace.

    2. Outside the walls of the Deku Palace, you'll find another soft soil
       spot on the east side of the palace.

    3. In the south part of Termina Field, right before you enter the path
       leading to the Southern Swamp, you'll notice there's an orange dot on
       your map in that area. Go to that dot, which is a treasure chest on a
       tree stump, and there should be a soft soil spot right next to it.
    4. Go outside of the observatory and you'll find the soft soil spot to
       the side of the building.

    5. In the eastern part of Termina Field, you'll find a soft soil patch
       next to one of the large pillars.

    6. In the Doggie Racetrack at Romani Ranch, you'll find the soft soil in
       the field where the doggies run around.

    7. In the northeast area of the Great Bay, you'll find several ledges
       with Hookshot targets on them. You'll find a soft soil spot on one of
       those ledges.

    8. Inside the Secret Shrine at Ikana Canyon, you'll find a soft soil
       spot.

    9. On a ledge on the top floor of the Stone Tower, after you flipped it
       upside-down, is where you'll find this soft soil spot.


Purify the Swamp Water
----------------------

After you clear the Woodfall Temple, the poisonous water of the swamp becomes 
clean again and you can swim in it. However, when you warp back to Day 1 with 
the Song of Time, the water becomes toxic again. To clean it up again, go to 
Woodfall by the owl statue and play the Sonata of Awakening again to make the 
temple appear. Enter the temple and walk into the light to reach the boss's 
room. Defeat the boss again and the water will be pure until the next time 
you warp back to Day 1.


Revive Broken Signs
-------------------

To revive a sign you cut in half with your sword, play the Song of Healing 
and the sign will become reassembled.


Secret Rupees
-------------

In Termina Field, you'll notice that there are music notes for the Ocarina 
painted onto some walls. To get some quick rupees, play the song on the wall 
and some rupees will fall down for you to collect.


Quiver Upgrades
---------------

Large Quiver (holds 40 arrows): Win this quiver by shooting a perfect game in 
the Swamp Shooting Gallery in the Southern Swamp.

Largest Quiver (holds 50 arrows): Win this quiver by beating the high score 
in the Town Shooting Gallery in East Clock Town.


Wallet Upgrades
---------------

Adult Wallet (holds 200 rupees): Go to West Clock Town and talk to the guy in 
the middle of that area. Deposit a total of 200 rupees with him (this will 
involve collecting them, depositing them, and so on), and he'll give you an 
Adult Wallet, which can hold up to 200 rupees at once.

Giant Wallet (holds 500 rupees): After you get the Goron Mask and the 
Hookshot, go to the Great Bay Coast and enter the Oceanside Spider House. 
Defeat all 30 Golden Skulltulas and get their tokens, then talk to the guy at 
the entrance to get the Giant Wallet.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  17. Credits -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Matt Williams (largeluva420(at)yahoo.com): For letting me know that the code 
for the Bomber's Hideout is randomly generated.

Brett Franklin/Nemesis (nemesis(at)flipmode.com): For letting me use the 30th 
Keaton question from his FAQ!

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  18. Copyright Notice  -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This file is Copyright (c)2000-2002 Devin Morgan. All rights reserved. This 
file was entirely written by me, unless otherwise noted in the Credits 
section of this file. This file may NOT be posted on ANY website, except the 
select few I list below:

GameFAQs (http://www.gamefaqs.com)
GameWinners (http://www.gamewinners.com)
VG Strategies (http://vgstrategies.about.com)
GameAdvice (http://www.gameadvice.com)
IGN FAQs (http://faqs.ign.com)

Do not ask me if you may post this file as a whole or in part, because you 
WILL be denied. I have been ripped off WAY too many times in the past, and 
even in the present day, and I just prefer to keep my work on the sites 
above. If you are writing a FAQ for this game and would like to use a little 
snippet, please ask me first since I sometimes allow people to use tiny bits 
and pieces; either way you must still ask first! I don't care who you are, 
how good your site is, etc., because I do not give permission to ANYONE 
nowadays; nothing against you if you truly are legitimate, but this is how I 
have to be thanks to the bad ones out there. If I find you have posted this 
or any other file I have created where it is not authorized, I will make sure 
it is removed and you will be sorry, simply put.

*****************************************************************************

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-=  19. Contact Information -=
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

If you have to contact me for any reason regarding my work or any other 
matters, please email me at dbm11085(at)hotmail.com. Note that I do NOT 
respond to emails with questions already answered in this file; unless this 
file is not marked as "FINAL", this file most likely has any information you 
may need. Therefore, if you mail me, do not expect a response; I am busy 
mostly and I have no time to paraphrase my own work to help you if you're too 
lazy to look yourself!

If you have anything to add/contribute to this file, email it to the address 
above. If it's of use, I will most likely email you back saying I'm going to 
post it, giving you full credit for what I use. Thank you for reading this 
file, and be sure to take a peek at all my work at the URL below:

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features/recognition/3579.html

=- End of File -=


