THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: MAJORA'S MASK
IN-DEPTH GUIDE OF THE BOMBER'S NOTEBOOK
-------------------------------------------
 by Seth Gastelum
hetnkik999@aol/yahoo.com
Last Updated November 10, 2000
 Version 2.0

Version 2.0 Update: Fixed Cremia's entry (which I somehow managed to 
leave out) and added a small FAQ. Also changed the part that says the 
Bunny Hood makes the Postman's challenge easier. (It doesn't.) Oh yeah, 
also added a couple more places the FAQ can appear.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
------------------
1. Introduction
2. How To Read The Guide
3. Characters
4. Bombers
5. Anju
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
 c. Objective 3
 d. Objective 4
 e. Objective 5
6. Kafei
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
 c. Objective 3
7. Man from Curiosity Shop
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
8. Old Lady from Bomb Shop
9. Romani
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
10. Cremia
11. Mr. Dotour
12. Madame Aroma
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
13. Toto
14. Gorman
15. Postman
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
 c. Objective 3
16. Rosa Sisters
17. ???
18. Anju's Grandmother
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
19. Kamaro
20. Grog
21. Gorman Brothers
 a. Objective 1
 b. Objective 2
22. Shiro
23. Guru-Guru
24. FAQ
25. Closing Statements
26. Legal Stuff

----------------
1. INTRODUCTION 
----------------
Let me start out by saying that this is the first guide I've written for 
GameFAQs so I hope people like it. Ok, I wrote this guide because first 
of all, Majora's Mask is awesome. Secondly because I couldn't find a 
chart anywhere that listed how to complete all the objectives in the 
Bomber's Notebook. So I set out and figured out how to complete them 
myself and now I'm passing this information on to you. Please note, you 
do not start off with the Bomber's Notebook. Please read 3a. to see how 
you get it. I hope you'll enjoy. Oh yeah, please leave feedback to any 
of my e-mail addresses (above) to tell me how it is. Now, on to the 
section that tells you how to get the most out of this guide.

-------------------------
2. HOW TO READ THE GUIDE
-------------------------
This guide is set up like this. "WHO:" "WHERE:" "WHEN:" "HOW:" and 
"WHAT:" The "WHO" tells you a little about the character. The "WHERE" 
tells you where to be to complete the entry. The "WHEN" will tell you 
when you need to be there. The "HOW" tells you what you have to do. And 
finally, the "WHAT" tells you what you get for helping that person. 
Also, some people need a lot of extra help so each thing you need to do 
for them will be put under different "OBJECTIVES." Pretty simple, huh? 
You probably didn't even need to read this section.

--------------
3. CHARACTERS
--------------
These are the different people you'll meet on your quest who are in 
desperate need of help.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
4. WHO: BOMBERS, Secret Society of Justice: Helping people 24 hours a 
day.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: North Clock Town

WHEN: 24/7, Days 1-3

HOW: Pop the blue Majora's Mask balloon. Talk to the kid and accept his 
challenge. Find the Bombers throughout Clock Town before the next 
morning. Two are in North Clock Town, in opposite corners. Two are in 
East Clock Town; one above Latte, holding a chicken, the other on the 
awning near The Stock Pot Inn. The last one is in West Clock Town near 
the Post Office.

WHAT: Secret code: Code for entering Bomber's hideout. Bomber's 
Notebook: Members-only schedule book.

------------------------------------------------------------
5. WHO: ANJU, Stock Pot Inn's innkeeper: A courteous woman.
------------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn. Located in East Clock Town.

WHEN: 2pm, Day 1

HOW: Talk to Anju, without the Kafei Mask, and tell her you do have a 
reservation.

WHAT: Received Room Key: Got it by mistake. Enter at night.

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn

WHEN: Immediately following her first objective.

HOW: Talk to her when the Postman is giving her a letter. Listen to 
their conversation. When the Postman leaves, talk to her with the Kafei 
Mask on. (See Madame Aroma's entry.)

WHAT: Secret Night Meeting: Promised to meet in kitchen at 11:30pm.

c. OBJECTIVE 3
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn's Kitchen

WHEN: Midnight-6am, Day 1 (Even though it says 11:30

HOW: Just show up and talk to her.

WHAT: Promised to meet Kafei: Promised to meet Anju's boyfriend. Letter 
to Kafei: Asked to drop in postbox in morning. (Mail this right away.)

d. OBJECTIVE 4
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn. Front desk on Day 2 or the last room upstairs 
on Day 3

WHEN: 5-8pm on Day 2 or 6am-Noon on Day 3

HOW: Give Anju the pendant Kafei gave you. (See Kafei's entry.)

WHAT: Delivered Pendant: Conveyed Kafei's intentions to Anju. (Anju 
decides to wait for Kafei.)

e. OBJECTIVE 5
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn's Employee Room (First door upstairs.)

WHEN: 5:30am, Day 3. Get there by Five just in case. Don't leave. I know 
it seems like Kafei won't get there but he'll make it in the knick of 
time. (As long as you met all the requirements. Make sure to keep 
checking Kafei's entry located below.)

HOW: Reunite Kafei and Anju by helping Kafei get his Sun Mask (see 
Kafei's entry) and by giving Anju the pendant. Now cry as you watch them 
decide to die together. (Optional)

WHAT: Couple's Mask: Sign of Anju and Kafei's happiness.

----------------------------------------------------
6. WHO: KAFEI: Strange youth seen near Laundry Pool
----------------------------------------------------

a. Objective 1
---------------
WHERE: Laundry Pool. Located out of South-West South Clock Town.

WHEN: 3:30-8:30pm, Day 2

HOW: Watch the Postman give Kafei the letter you mailed. (See Anju's 
entry.) Then wait for Kafei to go back in his house. Follow him in and 
go up to talk to him. Tell him you "can" keep a secret.

WHAT: Pendant of Memories: Promised to deliver it to Anju. (Give it to 
her right away.)

b. Objective 2
---------------
WHERE: Ikana Canyon. When your facing the river and the higher area of 
Ikana is in front of you, follow the path to the right. You'll see Kafei 
hiding behind some stones.

WHEN: 6pm, Day 3

HOW: Wait for Sakon (thief) to come. Make sure you stay hidden. Follow 
Kafei into the hideout. Kafei will step on a switch which will move the 
Sun Mask away. You will now control both characters. Using Link, step on 
the switch Kafei asked you to. With Kafei, push any of the blocks onto 
the switch. With Link, kill the Deku Baba. With Kafei, step on the blue 
switch. (NOTE* Stepping on the yellow switches will slow the conveyor 
belt. This is good. Stepping on the red switches will speed up the 
conveyor belt. AVOID STEPPING ON THE RED SWITCHES.) Using Link, kill the 
two Deku Babas. With Kafei, first push the far right block down. Then 
press the center block onto the red switch. Run back and press the 
yellow switch. Push the bottom block onto the blue switch. Now kill the 
Wolfos with Link. Push the far right block down away from the door and 
go through and press the switch with Kafei. Now press the final switch 
with Link. Are you shaking yet?

WHAT: Escaped from Sakon's Hideout: Helped Kafei recover stolen mask.

c. OBJECTIVE 3
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn's Employee Room

WHEN: 5:30am, Day 3 (Get there early and stay there.)

HOW: Reunite Kafei and Anju by helping Kafei get his Sun Mask and 
delivering the pendant to Anju. (See Anju's entry.) Now cry as you 
realize Anju is going to sleep with a child. (Optional.)

WHAT: Couple's Mask: Sign of Anju and Kafei's happiness.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
7. WHO: MAN FROM CURIOSITY SHOP, buys and sells stolen goods. Open at 
night only.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: Laundry Pool (Kafei's house.)

WHEN: 1-10pm, Day 3

HOW: Go up and talk to him. Only works if you've already talked to 
Kafei. (See Kafei's entry.)

WHAT: Keaton Mask: Kafei and Curiosity Shop's mask. Letter to Mama: 
Letter to Kafei's mom: High Priority. (Do not deliver....yet.)

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
WHERE: Curiosity Shop. Located in West Clock Town.

WHEN: 10pm-6am, Day 3

HOW: Go in and buy it. Only works if you stopped Sakon on Day 1. (See 
Old Lady from Bomb Shop's entry.) It costs 500 rupees so you'll need a 
Giant's Wallet from the Great Bay Spider Hut. (See someone else's guide 
or e-mail me for details on this.)

WHAT: All-Night Mask: Strange mask at a bargain. Valuable.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
8. WHO: OLD LADY FROM BOMB SHOP: Runs town Bomb Shop: Always open.
-------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: North Clock Town

WHEN: Midnight, Day 1

HOW: When Sakon (thief) steals her bag, slash him with your sword and 
wait for him to leave. Do not follow him.

WHAT: Blast Mask: Thanks for guarding bag from thief.

--------------------------------------------------------
9. WHO: ROMANI: Young girl living at ranch with sister.
--------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: Romani Ranch. Located South-West out of Termina Field and up Milk 
Road. A boulder will be blocking the path the first two days. You need a 
Powder Keg to clear the path. Please use someone else's guide to see how 
to do this or e-mail.

WHEN: 6am-6pm, Day 1

HOW: Talk to her by the barn and agree to help her. Ride Epona (horse) 
and pop all the ghost balloons within the allotted time. If you mess up, 
talk to her and try again.

WHAT: Became ranch hand: Help get rid of ghosts at 2:30am. (You also get 
Epona.)

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
WHERE: Romani Ranch (Inside barn.)

WHEN: 2:30am, Day 1

HOW: Meet Romani then go outside and start shooting all the ghost 'till 
dawn.

WHAT: Saved cows from "them": Protected cows and Romani 'till morn. Milk 
Bottle: Thanks for saving cows from ghosts.

----------------------------------------------------------------
10. WHO: CREMIA, manager of Romani Ranch: Milk is her specialty
----------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: Romani Ranch (neat barn)

WHEN: 6pm, Day 2

HOW: Agree to ride to town with her. Shoot bandits repeatedly to protect 
milk. (NOTE* If you wear the Circus Leader's Mask before you start the 
trip, there will be no attackers. See Toto and Gorman's entries.)

WHAT: Protected milk delivery: Saved milk from bandits. Romani's Mask: 
Shows Cremia considers you an adult.

-------------------------------------------------
11. WHO: MR. DOTOUR: Mayor of Clock Town. V.I.P.
-------------------------------------------------

WHERE: Mayor's Residence. Located in East Clock Town. He's behind the 
door on the left.

WHEN: 10am-8pm, Days 1 and 2/ 10am-6pm, Day 3

HOW: Speak to him using the Couple's Mask. (See Anju and Kafei's 
entries.)

WHAT: Dotour's Thanks: Thanks for ending a looong meeting. (Heart 
Piece.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. WHO: MADAME AROMA, the Mayor's Wife: In charge of town performances.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: Mayor's Drawing Room (Right door in Mayor's Residence.)

WHEN: 10am-8pm, Days 1 and 2

HOW: Just talk to her.

WHAT: Kafei's Mask: Show it to help with the search.

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
WHERE: Latte

WHEN: 6pm-6am, Day 3

HOW: Go into Latte using Romani's Mask. (See Cremia's entry.) Talk to 
Aroma wearing Kafei's Mask and give her the Priority Mail. (See Man from 
Curiosity Shop's entry.)

WHAT: Chateau Romani: Thanks for delivering letter to mom. (Includes 
bottle.)

------------------------------------------------
13. WHO: TOTO: Famed manager of The Indigo-Go's
------------------------------------------------

WHERE: Latte

WHEN: 10pm-6am, Days 1 and 2

HOW: Talk to her as Link, Deku Link, Goron Link, and Zora Link and agree 
to do a sound test each time. After you do this, The Ballad of the Wind 
Fish from Link's Awakening will play.

WHAT: Circus Leader's Mask: Thanks for moving Gorman with song.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. WHO: GORMAN, leader of a traveling troupe: Has fine clothes, but a 
frightful face.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Gorman's entry is exactly the same as Toto's. (See above.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. WHO: POSTMAN, town's postal carrier: A very serious public servant.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: Post Office. Located in West Clock Town

WHEN: 3pm-Midnight, Days 1 and 2

HOW: Talk to him and stop the clock at exactly 10 seconds.

WHAT: Training Award: Prize for getting time exactly right. (Heart 
Piece.)

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
WHERE: Any Postbox

WHEN: Midnight-Noon, Spanning Days 1 and 2

HOW: Simply deposit the letter Anju gave you. (See Anju's entry.)

WHAT: Deposited Letter to Kafei: Deposited letter for delivery.

c. OBJECTIVE 3
---------------
WHERE: Starting at Post Office, ending near Latte

WHEN: 6pm-6am, Day 3

HOW: Give the Postman the Priority Mail (See Man from Curiosity Shop's 
entry.) at the Post Office. Then follow him until he stops outside Latte 
and talk to him.

WHAT: Postman's Hat: Thanks for enabling him to flee.

------------------------------------------------------------------
16. WHO: ROSA SISTERS, twin dancers: Members of the Gorman Troupe
------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: West Clock Town

WHEN: 6pm-6am, Days 1 and 2

HOW: Dance in front of them using Kamaro's Mask. (See Kamaro's entry.)

WHAT: Rosa sister's thanks: Thanks for teaching the dance. (Heart 
Piece.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. WHO: ??? (Person living in the inn's restroom): Details are unknown.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn's restroom (Downstairs)

WHEN: Midnight-6am, All three days

HOW: Give him a Deku Land Title Deed. See another guide or e-mail me to 
see how to get one.

WHAT: Thanks for the paper: Thanks for helping person in toilet. (Heart 
Piece.) 

---------------------------------------------------------------- 
18. WHO: ANJU'S GRANDMOTHER: Storyteller and grandmother at inn
----------------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: The Stock Pot Inn's Study (First room downstairs.)

WHEN: 8am-6pm, Days 1 and 2

HOW: Talk to her wearing the All-Night Mask (See Man From Curiosity 
Shop's entry.) and listen to the first story. Answer the question 
correctly.

WHAT: Reading Prize 1: Prize for not sleeping through story. (Heart 
Piece.)

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
All information is the same as Objective 1, except listen to the second 
story and answer the question incorrectly.

WHAT: Reading Prize 2: Prize for not sleeping through story. (Heart 
Piece.)

------------------------------------------------------------------
19. WHO: KAMARO, ghost of a charismatic dancer: Enjoys Moonlight.
------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: On top of a frozen tree outside of North Clock Town.

WHEN: Midnight-6am, All three days

HOW: Talk to him, then play him the Song of Healing.

WHAT: Kamaro's Mask: Sign of taking over for dancer.

--------------------------------------------------------------
20. WHO: GROG, Cucco Shack's breeder: His crest is frightful.
--------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: Cucco Shack. Located in Romani Ranch.

WHEN: 6am-8pm, All three days

HOW: Use the Bremen Mask (See Guru-Guru's entry.) to march around and 
get all ten chicks (no, not that kind) to follow you in a line.

WHAT: Bunny Hood: Thanks for turning chicks into cuccos.

--------------------------------------------------------
21. WHO: GORMAN BROTHERS: Horse trainers. Suspicious...
--------------------------------------------------------

a. OBJECTIVE 1
---------------
WHERE: Gorman Track. Located left off Milk Road.

WHEN: 6am-6pm, All three days

HOW: Bring Epona (horse) there to race. Then kick their butts.

WHAT: Garo's Mask: Prize for winning Gorman horcerace.

b. OBJECTIVE 2
---------------
Exactly the same as Cremia's objective. Minus the Mask.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
22. WHO: SHIRO, the inconspicuous soldier: He really doesn't stand out.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE: Road to Ikana. When you first enter and you have a choice to go 
left to the graveyard or up to the village. Sitting in a circle of 
rocks. He's invisible.

WHEN: All day everyday.

HOW: Use the Lens of Truth and talk to him. He'll want some Red Potion.

WHAT: Stone Mask: Thanks for giving strength to a soldier.

--------------------------------------------------
23. WHO: GURU-GURU: Musician in the Gorman Troupe
--------------------------------------------------

WHERE: Laundry Pool

WHEN: 6pm-6am, Days 1 and 2

HOW: Talk to him and listen to his story.

WHAT: Bremen Mask: Thanks for hearing confession.

--------
24. FAQ
--------

Q: How can I give the Priority Mail to both the Postman and Madame 
Aroma?
A: You can only give it to one of the two during a three day cycle. You 
must restart the three days in order to give it to the other person.

Q: How can I stop Sakon (theif) and meet the Curiosity Shop Owner at the 
Laundry Pool?
A: Same with the first question, you can only do one during a three day 
cycle.

-----------------------
25. CLOSING STATEMENTS
-----------------------

I hope this guide helps you complete your Bomber's Notebook entries. If 
any of the information I wrote down is incorrect or if you are still 
having trouble, please e-mail me. You can also e-mail me with any 
questions you may have about anything in this guide. Please let me know 
if this guide is any good or if it sucks or whatever, your comment would 
be appreciated as it is my first guide. Thank you.
hetnkik999@aol.com
hetnkik999@yahoo.com

----------------
26. LEGAL STUFF
----------------

This guide is Copyright 2000 Seth Gastelum (hetnkik999). It may not be 
reproduced at any web-site except www.gamefaqs.com, www.neoseeker.com, 
and www.gameadvice.com without my written authorization. It may only be 
copied for private viewing and you may not make a profit off of it. If 
any of these rules are broken, legal action will be taken. Have a nice 
day.



