Last updated in version 1.13.13 of Fallout Shelter on January 18th, 2023. The **[Fallout Anniversary Update](https://fallout.bethesda.net/en/article/7sm41WDpRtbN4aOYMNcfrR/all-new-content-arrives-in-fallout-shelter-today)** is currently only for Android and iOS, and I mostly haven't updated this with anything from it yet.

Welcome to the Fallout Shelter FAQ! There are a lot of common questions that get asked over and over, and there are also many hidden and unintuitive mechanics in the game, so I've put together a guide/FAQ. If you're brand new to the game I would strongly recommend reading through the help section in-game first. It covers a lot of the basics which I don't bother covering here for that reason. To access it tap the Pip-Boy icon in the bottom right, then tap the wallet-looking icon (above the gears). This opens the VDSG, and near the top is a help tab. The game will run in the background as you're reading, but if you do it in a brand new vault before dragging dwellers in then you won't have to worry about resources draining or anything.

If you've come from reddit, **please check the first section before posting**. I've included common questions there. Otherwise if you have a specific question or just want to browse use the section break down on the right to find things. If you want to link to a specific question just mouse over the question number to have a link icon appear to its left, then click that to generate a URL for you to copy.

If you notice any typos, or more importantly any incorrect information, please let me know so I can rectify the problem. As I imagine most traffic here will be from reddit, you can **[message me there](https://en.reddit.com/user/the_rabidsquirel/)**. If you feel a question should be added or you've done some testing and found out something useful, also feel free to let me know so I can make an addition. I'll make any additions at the end of a section (or if a new section at the end of the FAQ), that way the numbering system and any references to them won't get messed up. I will do my best to keep this updated.

There's also a **[Fallout Shelter Discord](https://discord.gg/yZceSE6)** that everyone is welcome to join. Whether you've got a question you want answered, you want to show off your vault, or you want to be a part of a community around the game then come on over.

A huge shoutout to DanK___ who wrote the original FAQ that was stickied on **[r/foshelter](https://en.reddit.com/r/foshelter/)**. I copied a lot of stuff that hadn't changed from them. Another big shoutout to ShardisWolfe, SlowbroGGOP, and GOD-WAS-A-MUFFIN, all who have been huge contributors on r/foshelter and who I borrowed a lot of stuff from to write this. Thank you as well to anyone who I linked to that did testing and/or wrote content. I credited everyone where I could when I linked to anything. A bunch of screenshots don't have names, as I copied them from DanK___'s FAQ where they were uncredited, though I assume they were their own. There's no way I'd have all the content in this FAQ without all the help from many different people.