                 **************************************
                 *       The Chocobo Manifesto        *
                 *              ver 1.0               *
                 *           by Nick Adams            *
                 **************************************
                 *  Send Input or Requests for Newer  *
                 *   Versions to adamsnb@muohio.edu   *
                 **************************************

 Feel free to use or distribute this guide, but please don't change it,
            or use it without giving me credit for my work.

========================================================================
*Preface*

  If you're like me, you spent a lot of time looking for a reliable cho-
cobo breeding guide somewhere on the web. In an attempt to save somebody
some time, I've written a guide that actually works. Follow this to the
letter, and you'll get a Gold chocobo with minimal irritation. If you
find it helpful, write me at adamsnb@muohio.edu and say so.

========================================================================
*Why Should I?*

  It's not necessary to breed chocobos to win the game, but it's a cool
side-quest, plus each special type of chocobo (Green, Blue, Black, and
Gold) gives you access to a new cave with special materia, including the
ultimate Summon materia. Green, Black, and Gold chocobos also enable you
to reach the Forest of the Ancients (near Cosmo Canyon) without defeat-
ing the Altema Weapon.

========================================================================
*Needed Materia*

  First off, it's much easier to get a gold chocobo once you reach disk
3. Here's why: when you return to Midgar at the end of disk 2, once you
reach the tunnels that look like subway tunnels, go all the way down.
This will take a while, but it's worth it. At the end of the road you
will find the W-Item materia, which will make your chocobo breeding much
easier. Trust me!
  Also, it helps to have your Chocobo Lure materia mastered. If you use
it to fill an extra space on your armor or weapon during the whole game,
this is no problem.

========================================================================
*Chocobo Hunting*

  Before you start hunting, buy some stalls at the stable. I recommend
getting all six stalls (10,000 gil per). When you catch a chocobo it'll
be kept in the fenced area outside. You can keep up to four out here for
free, but you won't know what rating they have until you move them in-
side to the stalls.
  Actually, the chocobo hunting part shouldn't take you very long.
You'll eventually need three different chocobos to achieve your goal.
You need to get the first two right away:

1) A Great Female chocobo from the tracks near Mideel.
2) A Good Male chocobo from the tracks SE of Gold Saucer. Be careful;
    there are several types of chocobos here, but you MUST have a Good
    chocobo.
3) Eventually, you will also need a Wonderful Male chocobo from the
    tracks on the North Continent.

**Once you catch these birds, be sure to give them names which clearly
  indicate their rating and gender.

========================================================================
*Greens*

  Next, go to the Chocobo Sage's house. It's a lone house in a small
valley on the North Continent. Talk to him and purchase two Sylkis
Greens, the best greens he has. If you're interrested in hearing all
that the sage has to say, leave and come back periodically. He'll remem-
ber everything bit-by-bit.
  Now you should fly to anywhere with weak enemies. Make sure to remove
any Counter Attack materia your characters might be wearing, as you'll
want to leave one enemy alive.
  Here's where the W-Item comes into play. Using W-Item, select the
Sylkis Greens and give them to an enemy. For the second item, also
select the Sylkis Greens, but instead of giving them to an enemy, hit X
to cancel. This will increase the number of greens you have by one! Con-
tinue to select them, then cancel (O,X,O,X,...) until you have 99 of
them, then kill the last enemy.
  Get used to this procedure: it's a good idea to feed 90 Sylkis Greens
to each chocobo that you plan to breed. It might be overkill, but it
works. Your chocobos will now be maxed out in all areas: Speed, Endur-
ance, Intelligence, and Cooperation. This, coupled with racing parents
to S Class (explained below) phenomenally increases the chances of get-
ting the chocobo you want, as well as making the babies stronger and
better.

**If you don't want to use the W-Item procedure because you consider it
  cheating, that's your choice, but it takes a lot of money to buy 99
  Sylkis Greens. A good way to get enough cash is to sell off a couple
  of mastered All materia.

========================================================================
*Chocobo Racing*

  This part is time consuming, but it makes breeding so much easier! Go
to the stables and feed the soon-to-be-parent 90 Sylkis Greens. Next go
to the Chocobo Square at Gold Saucer. Talk to Ester (standing to the 
left) and register the chocobo. You'll  start off in C Class, but every
time you win three races (I recommend the short race), you'll go up a
class. After going through C, B, and A Classes, you'll reach S Class. I
HIGHLY recommend feeding all your parent chocobos 90 Sylkis Greens then
racing them up to S Class before using them for breeding.

**Racing is made MUCH easier if you hold down L1, L2, R1, and R2 the
  whole time. This will keep your stamina meter from being drained so
  quickly while dashing, and actually refill while running normally.

========================================================================
*Nuts*

  When you breed chocobos, you have to use a nut. This nut determines
the type of the offspring. As you will be breeding a total of four cho-
cobos, you'll need four nuts:

1) Carob Nuts: You'll need three of these. You could buy these from the
    Chocobo Sage, but it's cheaper to steal them from Vlakorados. To do
    this, go to the grassy area south of the excavation site on the
    North Continent. Wander around and eventually you'll fight a red
    dinosaur-type creature. Steal from him to obtain the Carob Nut. Make
    sure to do this three times.
2) Zeio Nut: You'll only need to get one of these. To do so, go to the
    small, forested island in the NE corner of the map. Wander around in
    the small forest here and you'll fight Goblin, a small creature with
    boxing gloves. Successfully steal from him to obtain the Zeio nut.

========================================================================
*Breeding*

  You're finally ready to breed chocobos! Now that you know the basics,
this part is easy.

1) After feeding 90 Sylkis greens to both your Great Female and your
    Good Male, and racing them both up to S Class, save your game. Now
    go into the stables and tell the boy that you want to breed them. 
    When he asks which type of nut to use, select a Carob Nut. This will
    result in a Green or Blue chocobo (probably Green). If it doesn't,
    load your game, but it SHOULD work. Make note of this baby's gender.
    Feed it 90 Sylkis Greens and race it up to S Class as well.
2) After racing your new chocobo up to S Class, its parents should be
    able to mate again (if not, try getting into the first materia cave
    or going through the Ancient Forest near Cosmo Canyon if you got a
    Green chocobo [To take your new chocobo to another continent, go to
    the stables tell the boy that you want to ride him. Once on the
    world map go into the airship as normal; when you get off, you'll be
    on the chocobo. When you're finished, just ride it back into the
    stables.]). Save your game and mate the original parents, again
    using a Carob Nut. This time you should get the opposite color and
    opposite gender chocobo (if you originally got a Green Female you
    should now get a Blue Male, etc.). If you don't, load your game and
    try again, but you shouldn't have to. Feed this baby 90 Sylkis
    Greens and race it up to S Class.
3) When your Green and Blue chocobos are at S Class and are able to
    mate, couple them and use yet another Carob Nut. Make sure to save
    your game first, and load it if you don't get a Black Female. If you
    do, feed it 90 Sylkis Greens and race it up to S Class (sound
    familiar?). Also do this with the Wonderful Male chocobo that you
    caught. It is impossible to get a gold chocobo without racing your
    Wonderful Male up to S Class!
4) Mate your black chocobo with the Wonderful Male using the Zeio nut to
    get a Gold chocobo. Once again, save beforehand and load it if you
    fail, but you should be okay. Congratulaions! You're now the proud
    owner of a Gold chocobo!

========================================================================